131 
 supplies up to 10% (ten percent) of the original value of the contract. CFA will be 
determined with reference to the value of the original order plus excess supply. There 
would not be any requirement of holding CNC to review such acceptance of excess/ 
short supply. 
10.6 DENIAL CLAUSE: 
Variations in the rates of statutory levies within the original delivery schedule will be 
allowed if taxes are explicitly mentioned in the contract/ supply order and delivery has 
not been made till the revision of the statutory levies. Buyer reserves the right not to 
reimburse the enhancement of cost due to increase in statutory levies beyond the 
original delivery period of the supply order/ contract even if such extension is granted 
without imposition of LD. 
10.7 DELIVERY PERIOD (DP): 
Timely delivery as per the DP stipulated in the supply order/ contract is one of the most 
important procurement objectives. The stores/services are considered to have been 
delivered/ completed only when the contractual obligations of Seller as stated in the 
supply order/ contract, except the ones related to post acceptance, have been fully 
met. 
10.7.1 Failure to deliver within the DP : When the supplies/ services do not materialize within 
the stipulated contract delivery date, the Buyer has the following options: 
a) Extension of DP : Extend DP, if need persists, with/without imposition of LD and 
denial clause in accordance with para 10.8 and 10.6 of this Manual respectively. 
b) Re-fixing of DP:  DP may be re-fixed, in the under-mentioned circumstances, with 
the approval of CFA and the concurrence of financial advisor. Such re-fixation of 
DP will always be without imposition of LD. 
(i) Cases where delay is attributable to the Lab/Estt for whatever reasons.  
(ii) Where product realization is dependent on approval of advance samples 
and delay occurs in approving the samples even though submitted in time. 
(iii) Cases where the entire production is controlled by the Government. 
c) Canceling the contract in accordance with para 10.15 of this Manual. Lab/Estt. may 
consi der purchasing the non-supplied quantity afresh if need persists.   
10.7.2 Guidelines for the Extension of DP : Amendments affecting delivery period will not be 
made as a matter of routine. In exceptional cases, where Seller has asked for revision 132 
 of delivery period justifying with sufficient reasons, approval of appropriate authority for 
revision of DP will be obtained before communicating such extension to the Seller. 
Normally, all DP extensions will be accorded with imposition of LD and denial of any 
enhancement in statutory levies that takes place beyond the original DP. However, the 
case may be examined on merit for limiting/ waiving off the LD in terms of para 10.8.2 
of this Manual when due justification exists. While extending the DP, ruling on 
imposition of LD, interest on advances paid and admissibility or otherwise of 
enhancement of statutory levies during the extended period, will invariably be 
mentioned in the DP extension letter. Normally, t he Seller shall formally apply for 
extension of delivery date prior to expiry of date stipulated in the supply order/ contract 
justifying the reasons for not adhering to the specified date of delivery. Action for 
extension of delivery date at the request of the Seller will be considered taking the 
following factors into account: 
a) Urgency of the requirement and whether delay involved has or will cause 
any loss or inconvenience to the Lab/Estt. 
b) It is to be ensured that all applicable BGs are revalidated to cover the 
proposed extension. 
c) Whether difficulties informed by the Seller are justifiable and the Seller has 
made all efforts to carry out their contractual obligation in time. 
d) In case of project requirements, the revised DP falls well within the PDC of 
the project. 
e) No delivery period extension is required to complete inspection if stores are 
delivered within stipulated DP and accepted without any quantity or quality 
claim. 
f) All DP extension should normally be approved before the expiry of 
stipulated delivery schedule, to obviate the need for ex-post-facto sanction. 
g) In case of DP extension due to default of the Seller, the interest-free 
advance paid would become interest-bearing as per para 6.44.2 (e) (iii) and 
7.3.9 (c) of this Manual. 
h) Price increase due to revision of statutory levies, exchange rate variation, 
upward revision of price of Government controlled stores etc. will not be 
admissible during the extended delivery period except when delays are 
attributable to Labs/Estts to fulfill their contractual obligations or in case of 
force majeure or in cases where delay is beyond control of the Seller which 