162 
 price prior to conduct of C NC. 
f) The payment milestones/ stages will be defined unambiguously. 
g) Contract Monitoring Committee (CMC)/ Progress Review Committee (PRC) will 
be constituted as per the details given in para 12.22 of this Manual. 
12.20 SIGNING OF CONTRACT :  
The contract will be prepared as per MM Forms issued by DFMM and signed by both 
the parties after approval of CFA as per the provisions of Chapter 9 of this Manual. 
12.21 CONTRACT COMMENCEMENT AND COMPLETION DAT ES: 
Care should be taken to ensure that the date of contract commencement and the date 
of completion must be deterministic at any given point of time. Stages if any should 
have well defined time schedules and specific milestones.  
12.22 MONITORING PROGRESS AND MANAGEMENT OF CONTRACTS/ AGREEMENTS:  
12.22.1 Responsibility to monitor the progress and operation of the Developmental/ Fabrication 
contract will rest with the Lab/Estt that has concluded such contract. The Lab/Estt will 
provide necessary guidance to the development partner as required from time to time 
and will maintain close liaison with them to clarify any doubts during course of its 
execution. 
12.22.2 A Contract Monitoring Committee/ Progress Review Committee would be constituted by 
the Director of the Lab/Estt with a member from MMG & QAC and a senior member 
from other than user group. The committee would meet at least once in every quarter of 
the contract period to monitor the progress of development. In case the progress is not 
found satisfactory, committee would recommend suitable remedial measures. Where 
required, the committee may advise extension of contract period or short/ stage closure 
of the contract. 
12.22.3 The recommendations of the committee on changes would be put up to to the CFA.  
12.22.4 Any decision on cancellation of contract, stage or short closure of the contract would be 
taken by the CFA with concurrence of associated finance, if applicable. 
12.23 ACCESS TO CLASSIFIED DOCUMENTS/ SYSTEMS: 
The nature of activity for developmental task demands a comprehensive knowledge of 
the complete system/ documentation. Development partner will be allowed to access 
pertinent classified details/documentation in the interest of execution of task. 