89 
 procurement. 
b) The Seller is required to disclose termination of the agreement with the Agent, 
within two weeks of the agreement having been terminated. 
c) Buyer /MoD reserves the right to inform the Seller at any stage that the Agent so 
engaged is no t acceptable whereupon it would be incumbent on the Seller either 
to interact with Buyer / MoD directly or engage another Agent. The decision of 
Buyer /MoD on rejection of the Agent shall be final and be effective immediately. 
d) All payments made to the Agent 12 months prior to tender submission would be 
disclosed at the time of tender submission and thereafter an annual report of 
payments would be submitted during the procurement process or upon demand 
of the Buyer / MoD. 
e) The Agent will not be engaged to manipulate or in any way to recommend to any 
functionaries of the Govt of India, whether officially or unofficially, the award of 
the contract to the Seller or to indulge in corrupt and unethical practices. 
f) The contract with the Agent will not be a conditional contract wherein payment 
made or penalty levied is based, directly or indirectly, on success or failure of the 
award of the contract. 
g) On demand, the Seller shall provide necessary information/inspection of the 
relevant financial documents/information, including a copy of the contract(s) and 
details of payment terms between the Seller and the Agent engaged by him. 
h) If the equipment being offered by the Seller has been supplied /contracted with any 
organisation, public/private in India, the details of the same may be furnished in the 
technical as well as commercial offers. The Sellers are required to give a written 
undertaking that they have not supplied/is not supplying the similar systems or 
subsystems at a price lower than that offered in the present bid to any other 
Ministry/Department of the Government of India and if the similar system has been 
supplied at a lower price, then the details regarding the cost, time of supply and 
quantities be included as part of the commercial offer. In case of non disclosure, if it 
is found at any stage that the similar system or subsystem was supplied by the Seller 
to any other Ministry/Department of the Government of India at a lower price, then 
that very price, will be applicable to the present case and with due allowance for 
elapsed time, the difference in the cost would be refunded to the Buyer, if the 
contract has already been concluded. 
Following details are also to be submitted in the Techno-Commercial bid :  90 
 i) Name of the Agent 
ii) Agency Agreement between the Seller and the agent giving details of their 
contractual obligation 
iii) PAN Number, name and address of bankers in India and abroad in respect of 
Indian agent 
iv) The nature and scope of services to be rendered by the agent and 
v) Percentage of agency commission payable to the agent  
7.2.6 Access to Books of Accounts : This provision gives right to the Buyer to access 
Seller‟s books of accounts for checking if Seller has violated its undertaking given at the 
time of submission of bid on use of undue influence and/or employment of agent. The 
standard text of this clause is as under:  
“In case it is found to the satisfaction of the Buyer that the Bidder/  Seller has violated 
the provisions of use of undue influence and/or employment of agent to obtain the 
Contract, the Bidder/ Seller, on a specific request of the Buyer, shall provide necessary 
information/ inspection of the relevant financial documents/ information/ Books of 
Accounts.”  
7.2.7 Non-disclosure of Contract Documents : This clause restricts parties not to share the 
information provided by each other without explicit consent. The standard text of this 
clause is as under:   
“Except with the written consent of the Buyer/ Seller, other party shall not disclose the 
Contract or any provision, specification, plan, design, pattern, sample or information 
thereof to any third party.”  
7.2.8 Handling of Classified Information by Indian Licensed Defence Industry : Any 
classified document/information/ equipment being shared with Indian Licensed Defence 
Industries will be protected/ handled to prevent unauthorized access as per provisions 
of Chapter 5 of Security Manual for Indian Licensed Defence Industries issued by MoD 
(Department of Defence Production). 
7.2.9 Withholding of Payment : This clause authorizes the Buyer to withhold payment till 
end when the Seller fails in its contractual obligation. The standard text of this clause is 
as under: 
“In the event of the Seller's failure to submit the Bon ds, Guarantees and Documents, 
supply the stores/ goods and conduct trials, installation of equipment, training, etc. as 