148 
 with necessary documents. At times claims are rejected for reasons like: 
a) Relevant documents not produced by the consignee, 
b) Discrepancies exist in the documents produced, 
c) Customs Notification under which exemption is claimed is not mentioned or 
mentioned inaccurately, and 
d) Delay in filing refund claim, etc. 
Adequate care should be taken to ensure that customs refund appeals are not rejected 
due to procedural lapses. 
11.16.2 Appeal to Higher Authorities : If the appeal for claim has been rejected by Astt. 
Commissioner of Customs (Refunds), Lab/Estt will file the appeal with the 
Commissioner of Customs (Appeals) within mandatory period as decided by Customs 
to avoid rejection. If this appeal is also rejected, and Lab/Estt considers the refund 
claim should be processed further, an appeal can be filed with Customs Excise & 
Service Tax Appellate Tribunal (CESTAT), New Delhi within stipulated time, on 
payment of prescribed fees. Generally, the decisions of CESTAT are final and binding. 
The appeals can, however, be taken up further with higher authorities in accordance 
with procedures described in Customs Manual (http://www.cbec.gov.in). 
11.16.3 Labs/Estts will maintain a register for 'Refund Claims for Customs Duty' which will be 
updated with the latest progress of each case. Director and Head, MMG of the Lab/Estt 
will periodically inspect this register. 
11.16.4 Pay-back Demand Notice : All refund claims, which have been passed and refund 
issued, undergo scrutiny of Central Revenue Audit. If any discrepancy in the claim is 
found during such audit scrutiny, Custom authorities issue Pay Back Notice to the 
importer for returning the amount refunded forthwith, along with the reasons for making 
such untenable refund claims. In such cases, Lab/Estt will react promptly to sort out 
problems. Inept handling of such cases will complicate the situation and may invite 
adverse criticism from the higher authorities. 
11.17 LOSS/ DAMAGE/ SHORT-LANDING: 
Defence consignments are not normally opened by the Customs. If loss/damages are 
suspected, a survey can, however, be conducted at the behest of the consignee/ 
clearing agent in order to ascertain the loss/damage through a Survey Board duly 
constituted by Director. Survey Board will have members from Lab/Estt, clearing agent, 