39 
 Board. Cases beyond the delegated financial powers of Apex Board will be submitted 
to the CFA by the Project/ Program Director for approval along with recommendations 
of Apex Board and documents listed in para 4.9 of this Manual.  
4.8.2 All Other Cases : MMG will submit the demand along with documents as listed in para 
4.9 of this Manual for the approval of CFA. Concurrence of finance would be taken as 
per the delegated financial powers.  
4.8.3 Further action on procurement of such items will be taken after approval is accorded by 
the CFA. 
4.9 DOCUMENTS REQUIRED FOR DEMAND APPROVAL: 
a) Copy of demand as per format DRDO.DM.01  with SoC. 
b) Check-list signed/countersigned by the Director/Program Director as per Part II of 
DRDO.DM.01 . 
c) Copy of Draft RFP or all relevant details as per DRDO. BM.0 2. 
d) Copy of PAC as per format DRDO.DM.02 , if applicable. 
e) Copy of detailed justification for procurement through single bidding mode as per 
format DRDO.DM.03 , if applicable. 
f) Duly filled- in questionnaire for acceptance of necessity in case of Capital 
procurement as per format DRDO.DM.04 , where applicable. 
g) List of vendors with vendor registration/enlistment No. and basis of selection of 
vendors (for Limited Bidding Mode (LBM)/ Single Bidding Mode ( SBM ) only). 
h) EOI/RFI report, if applicable.  
i) Scope of Free Issue Material (FIM).  
j) Justification for waiver of e-publishing, e-procurement and any other terms and 
conditions, if required. 
4.10 APPROVAL OF DEMANDS: 
Demand will be approved by the CFA as per the delegation of financial powers. The 
demand approval by the CFA would freeze the item, quantity, mode of bidding and 
RFP conditions. Wherever demand approval for procurement of stores has been 
obtained along with the project sanction, then there is no need to obtain fresh demand 
approval from CFA provided the project sanction letter explicitly specifies such 40 
 approvals/ sanctions. 
4.10.1 Expenditure Sanction along with Demand Approval : CFA may consider the 
proposal to accord expenditure sanction along with demand approval on cost not 
exceeding basis provided a rigorous costing exercise has been done and the cost 
ceiling is supported with costing details as per para 8.8 of this Manual. The letter 
conveying the demand approval will specify the same. Expenditure sanction so 
accorded will remain valid subject to confirmation by the Head of Lab/Program on 
compliance of following conditions:  
a) That no amendment to the RFP, except in Part I, has been issued. 
b) That finalized cost of the contract is within the sanctioned cost mentioned in 
demand approval-cum-expenditure sanction. 
c) That no deviation from the prevailing procurement process has been made. 
d) That no deviation from the terms and conditions as stated in the Request For 
Proposal (RFP) except the ones that have been recommended in the CNC  
meeting and recorded in minutes. 
4.10.2 All cases where demand has been approved by the CFA with the concurrence of 
finance as per the delegated financial powers, the PAC signed by the Director would be 
deemed as concurred by Finance, else concurrence of finance would be taken prior to 
issue of PAC. 
4.11 COMBINING VARIOUS STAGES OF PROCESSING: 
A proposal, when initiated, should be complete in all respects so that all aspects 
relating to cost, demand approval, vetting of Notice Inviting Bid/ RFP, etc., could be 
examined simultaneously by the Integrated Finance, where required as per the 
delegation of financial powers. Various stages of processing, to the extent feasible, 
may be combined on the basis of requirement. 
4.12 SUBMISSION OF MULTIPLE DEMANDS IN ONE- GO: 
Labs/Estts may submit multiple demands in one go for the approval of CFA. Such 
demands will be approved by appropriate CFA.  
4.13 CONSOLIDATED PROCESSING OF PROCUREMENT INVOLVING SAME ITEMS 
EMANATING FROM DIFFERENT PROJECTS IN THE SAME LAB:  
4.13.1 If the same item is required for different projects/divisions/groups, the Lab/Estt may 
consolidate multiple demands and submit a single proposal for the approval of CFA, 