103 
 this clause is as under: 
a) Indigenous Sellers: The payment of bills will be made on submission of the 
following documents by the Seller to the Buyer 
(i) Ink-signed copy of Contingent Bill.  
(ii) Ink-signed copy of Commercial Invoice / Seller‟s Bill.  
(iii) Bank Guarantee for Advance, if applicable.  
(iv) Guarantee/ Warranty Certificate.   
(v) Details for electronic payment viz. Bank name, Branch name and address, 
Account Number, IFS Code, MICR Number (if these details are not already 
incorporated in the Contract).  
(vi) Original copy of the Contract and amendments thereon, if any.  
(vii) Self certification from the Seller that the  GST/ applicable taxes as received 
under the contract would be deposited to the concerned taxation authority. 
(viii) Any other document/ certificate that may be provided for in the Contract.  
(Note – Lab may specify any other documents required as per need)   
b) Foreign Sellers:  In case of payment through Letter of Credit (LC), paid shipping 
documents are to be provided to the Bank by the Seller as a proof of dispatch of 
goods as per contractual terms/ LC conditions so that the Seller gets payment from 
LC. The Bank will forward these documents to the Buyer for getting the goods/ 
stores released from the Port/ Airport. However, where the mode of payment is 
DBT, the paid shipping documents are to be provided to the paying authority by the 
Buyer. Documents will include:   
(i) Clean on Board Airway Bill/Bill of Lading 
(ii) Original Invoice  
(iii) Packing List  
(iv) Certificate of Origin from Seller‟s Chamber of Commerce, if any.  
(v) Certificate of Quality and year of manufacture from OEM.  
(vi) Dangerous Cargo Certificate, if applicable.  
(vii) Insurance Policy of 110% value in case of CIF/ CIP contract  104 
 (viii) Certificate of Conformity and Acceptance Test at PDI, if any.  
(ix) Phyto-sanitary/ Fumigation Certificate, if any.  
(x) Any other documents as provided for in the Contract.” 
(Note –Lab may specify any other documents required as per need)   
7.3.11 Exchange Rate Variation (ERV) Clause : To cover the exchange rate fluctuation due 
to volatile market in a long term contract, it may be necessary to make a provision for 
such variation in exchange rates. The standard text of this clause is as under: 
“This clause will be applicable only in case the delivery  period exceeds 12 Months from 
the Effective Date of the Contract which involves import content (foreign exchange). 
a) Detailed time schedule for procurement of imported material and their value at 
the FE rates adopted for the Contract is to be furnished by the Bidder as per the 
format given below. 
Year Wise and Major Currency Wise Import Content Break up 
 
 
 
 
. 
b) ERV will be payable/ refundable depending upon movement of exchange rate 
with reference to exchange rate adopted for the valuation of the Contract. Base 
Exchange rate of each major currency used for calculating FE content of the 
Contract will be the SBI selling rate of the foreign exchange element on the date 
of the last date of bid submission. 
c) The base date for ERV would be the  last date of bid submission and variation on 
the base date will be given up to the midpoint of manufacture unless the Bidder 
indicates the time schedule within which material will be imported by them. Based 
on information given above, the cut-off date/dates within the Delivery schedule for 
the imported material will be fixed for admissibility of ERV. 
d) ERV clause will not be applicable under following circumstances: 
(i) Cases where delivery periods for imported content are subsequently to be Year  Total Cost of 
Material  
(Import)  FE Content Outflow  
(Equivalent in Rs. in crores)  
$ € £ Others  
      
      