117 
 may be collected from trade journals/internet/ technical literature/industry 
sources/international or domestic market survey or Cost Estimation & Reasonability 
Committee (CERC) may be constituted to arrive at an assessed reasonable price 
through cost break-up analysis or by surveying the products performing similar 
functions or using similar components/ materials/ technology etc. 
8.7 EVALUATION AGAINST B ENCH -MARK:  
The Benchmark price is an estimated price and will not be taken as a rigid cut-off price 
in deciding the reasonableness of the quoted price. It will be used as a basis/ yardstick 
for comparison with the quoted price. The decision regarding reasonableness of the 
quoted price would have to be taken by the CNC on the merit of the case. 
8.8 BENCHMARKING/ REASONABLENESS OF PRICES:  
There can be multiple methods of arriving at a benchmark for assessing reasonability 
of prices quoted. It may be acknowledged that a budgetary quote can at best be an 
indicative price but not an assessment of reasonability of cost. Therefore following 
approaches either singly or in combination may be adopted: 
a) Ascertain element wise breakup of cost. For e.g. the quote/selling price would 
generally constitute elements such as material cost, labour cost, overhead cost 
along with applicable warranty and profit. 
b) Ascertain the Last Procurement Price (LPP) of similar item, supplied by the vendor 
recently to same service or other sister services/ organizations. If LPP is of an 
earlier period then Price Level (PL) is required to be fixed as per last delivery of 
item and applicable escalation to be given on that PL till year of delivery. 
c) Escalation will have to be worked out on the basis of material composition and 
analysis of raw materials used to make the item.  The movement of price indices of 
raw materials (year on year average), wholesale price indices, consumer price 
indices, global metal indices such as London metal indices, US indices, UK MM19 
etc. may be used to assess the escalation rate. 
d) Delivery period is to be ascertained and if the delivery is scheduled for more than 
one year then midpoint of delivery period is to be taken for deciding escalation.  
Month wise escalation from date of LPP may be given or if it is yearly then seven 
months or more may be considered for one additional year‟s escalation.  For e.g. if 
item has to be delivered in the year 2014-2018 and LPP is for 2010, then the prices 
have to be escalated from the year 2010 till 2016. 118 
 e) Budgetary Quote ( BQ) obtained from one or more prospective Sellers may also 
form the basis of benchmarking cost. If there is huge variation in BQ, the 
aberrations have to be marginalized. 
f) Prevailing market rates obtained through Market Survey (MS) or prices available 
from open sources like internet etc. may be taken for benchmarking. However, 
these should be referenced in the CNC regarding source & authenticity. 
g) Labour cost has to be broken down into labour hours used and the Man-hour Rate 
(MHR). In case of procurement of major item, the apportionment of estimated hours 
required by the vendor and the MHR of the vendor, where available, is to be used 
for working out the labour cost.  For e.g. for manufacturing an aircraft by HAL, 
many Divisions would be involved over a period of 4-5 years. The total labour hours 
of each HAL Division as per Detailed Project Report (DPR) after factoring reduction 
in hours on account of learning curve is to be worked out. Further the man hours 
have to be apportioned year-wise for each Division and multiplied by MHR of 
respective years to arrive at the total labour cost. 
h) Professional Officers‟ Valuation (POV) may be considered in case no other prices 
are available of that particular item. 
i) Discounts may be factored-in while benchmarking viz. on account of Long Term 
Business Agreements (LTBA)  with other OEMs or economies of scale. In case of 
Bought out Foreign terms or indigenous items with substantial import content, LPP 
plus Exchange Rate Variation (ERV)  since last purchase, if any, have to be 
factored-in benchmarking. 
j) Factors such as obsolescence/ Redundancy, Freight & Insurance, Profit & 
Warranty,  etc. may be factored in while arriving at benchmark price. 
k) Taxes and duties  may not be factored while benchmarking. 
l) In case of DPSUs , the parameters of cost as per Pricing Policy or Govt. of India 
letters, if any, may be factored-in while arriving at benchmark price. 
8.9 ADOPT ION OF DISCOUNTED CASH FLOW (DCF) TECHNIQUE :  
The DCF is a method of evaluation by which cash flow of the future are discounted to 
current levels by the application of a discount rate with a view to reducing all cash 
flows to a common denomination and make comparison. 
8.9.1 The DCF procedure is to reduce both cash in-flows and out-flows into Net Present 