135 
 probability of loss or damage is considered high . Whenever it is decided to insure the 
stores, such insurance would be taken through a nationalized insurance agency or their 
subsidiaries against loss or damage in transit. Insurance cover will invariably be 
obtained from the insurance agency before dispatch of the consignment by the Seller .  
10.10.2 Import : In case of procurement from foreign sources all consignments, on Ex-Works/ 
FAS/ FCA/ FOB/ CPT/ CFR basis, shall invariably be insured.  
10.11 REPEAT ORDER (RO) CLAUSE:  
10.11.1 Provision for repeat order clause should not be made as a matter of course in the RFPs 
as these clauses have an impact on price. RO clause may be provided in the RFP only 
in exceptional circumstances, where the consumption pattern is not predictable. Under 
this clause, the Buyer retains the right to place orders for additional quantity up to a 
maximum of 50%, including order placed under Option Clause, of the originally 
contracted quantity at the same rate and terms of the supply order/ contract .   
10.11.2 Conditions Governing RO : If a demand is received for an item or items previously 
ordered by Labs/Estts or other DRDO Labs/Estts or other Government scientific re-
search institutions, repeat order may be placed without fresh tendering/negotiations , 
even if R.O clause is not mentioned in the Original S.O  provided that :  
a) Items ordered have been delivered successfully. 
b)  The original order was placed on the basis of lowest price negotiated by TPC/NC 
wherever applicable and technically acceptable offer and was not on delivery 
preferences. 
c) The repeat order is placed within twelve months from the date of supply and only 
once by the Lab/Estt, the total quantity to be ordered /purchased on repeat order 
does not exceed 50% of original order. However if the original order was for 
single quantity, repeat order can be made for the same. 
d) The requirement is for stores of identical description/specifications.  
e) The supplier‟s willingness to accept the repeat order on the same terms and 
conditions as per the original order is obtained, where ever R.O clause is not 
mentioned in the Original S.O . 
f) The CFA is satisfied that there is no downward trend in the market price of the 
item and a clear certificate is appended to that effect if the enquiry is floated 
afresh, the expenditure is not likely to be less. 