99 
 of the Contract/ SO are not fulfilled by the S eller.”  
7.3.3 Tolerance Clause : This clause provides the Buyer an opportunity to address the 
change in the requirement during the period starting from issue of RFP till placement of 
SO/ Contract. The standard text of this clause is as under: 
“To take care of any change in the requirement during the period starting from issue of 
RFP till placement of the Contract, Buyer reserves the right to increase or decrease 
25% of the quantity of the required goods, proposed in the RFP, without any change in 
the terms and conditions and rates quoted by the Seller. While awarding the Contract, 
the quantity ordered can be increased or decreased by the Buyer within this tolerance 
limit.”  
7.3.4 Option Clause : This clause empowers the Buyer to place additional orders, within the 
currency of the original Contract/SO, for additional quantity up to a maximum of 50% of 
the originally contracted quantity (rounded up to the next whole number) at the same 
rate and terms of the original Contract/SO. The standard text of this clause is as under: 
“The Contract will have an Option Clause, wherein the Buyer can exercise an option to 
procure an additional 50% of the original contracted quantity (rounded up to the next 
whole number) in accordance with the same terms and conditions of the Contract. This 
will be applicable within the currency of the Contract. It will be entirely the discretion of 
the Buyer to exercise this option or not ”. 
7.3.5 Repeat Order Clause : This clause empowers the Buyer to place additional orders up 
to 50% quantity of the original contracted quantity (rounded up to the next whole 
number), within  twelve months from the date of completion of supply under the original 
Contract/ SO, at the rates on not exceeding basis while the terms and conditions will 
remain unchanged. The standard text of this clause is as under:  
“The Contract will have a Repeat Order Clause, wherein the Buyer can order up to 50% 
quantity of the original contracted quantity (rounded up to the next whole number) 
under the Contract within  twelve months from the date of completion of supply under 
the original Contract/ SO. The Repeat Order will have rates on not exceeding basis 
while the terms and conditions will remain unchanged. It will be entirely the discretion of 
the Buyer to exercise the Repeat ord er or not.”  
7.3.6 Purchase Preference Clause : The RFP should inform potential bidders about 
purchase preference as prescribed by the Govt. of India from time to time through 
statutory orders or administrative instructions. The standard text of this clause is as 
under: 100 
 “Purchase preference will be granted as per Public Procurement (Preference to Make 
in India), Order-2017 as amended, issued by DPIIT/Ministry of Commerce and 
Industry .” 
7.3.7 Transfer of Technology (ToT):  ToT is the process of transferring skills, knowledge, 
technologies, methods of manufacturing and facilities by one party to other. This is to 
ensure that the scientific and technological developments are accessible to Labs/Estts 
to further develop and exploit the technology for development of new product, 
processes, applications, materials or services. Following clause may be included in the 
RFP where ToT is being sought:  
“Buyer is desirous of license production of (generic name of store(s)) under ToT. Bu yer 
reserves the right to negotiate ToT terms subsequently but the availability of ToT would 
be a pre-condition for any further procurements. If negotiations for ToT are not held as 
a part of the negotiations for store(s), then subsequent and separate ToT negotiations 
would continue from the stage where the store(s ) has been selected.”  
(In such cases, Labs/Estts. would spell out the requirements and scope of ToT 
depending upon the depth of the technology which is required). 
7.3.8 Permissible Time Frame for Submission of Bills : RFP should explicitly state about 
the timeline for submission of bills for claiming payment. The standard text of this 
clause is as under: 
“To claim payment (part or full), the Seller shall submit the bill(s) along with the 
relevant documents within ___ days from the completion of the activity/ supply.” (Lab 
should mention the no. of days and the activity from which the counting will start) 
7.3.9 Payment Terms : Payment terms are of great importance to both Buyer and Seller as 
the cost of finance plays a very important role in deciding the cost of an item or service 
being contracted for. RFP should clearly state the terms of payment including stage 
payment/ advance payment, if any, as well as the mode of payment. The payment 
terms should normally be in accordance with the options given in RFP as any change 
of payment terms specified in the RFP can alter L1 determination. In case where the 
payment terms offered by the bidders differ from the options given in the RFP, DCF 
technique may be utilized for LI determination. The standard text of this clause is as 
under: 
a) For Indigenous Seller:  The payment will be made as per the following terms, on 
production of the requisite documents: 
(i) 100% payment within 30 days after receipt, satisfactory installation and 
acceptance of stores/equipment in good condition or the date of receipt of 