109 
 inspection for each of the clauses. Any other inspection instruction, if required, may be 
added.)  
7.3.19 Franking Clause : The fact that the stores have been inspected after the delivery 
period and accepted by the inspectorate does not bind the Buyer, unless at his 
discretion he agrees, to accept delivery thereof. A suitable provision shall be made in 
the RFP to address such type of concern. The standard text of this clause is as under: 
a) In Case of Acceptance of Store(s):  “The fact that the goods have been inspected 
after the delivery period and passed by the Inspecting Officer will not have the 
effect of keeping the contract alive. The goods are being passed without prejudice 
to the right s of the Buyer under the terms and conditions of the Contract”.  
b) In Case of Rejection of Store(s):  “The fact that the goods have been inspected 
after the delivery period and rejected by the Inspecting Officer will not bind the 
Buyer in any manner. The goods are being rejected without prejudice to the rights 
of the Buyer under the terms and conditions of the contract.”  
7.3.20 Claims : For settlement of claim in respect of deficiency in quality/ quantity of supplies 
made under the contract, following clause may be provided in the RFP: 
a) The quantity claims for deficiency of quantity and/ or the quality claims for defects 
or deficiencies in quality noticed during the inspection shall be presented within 45 
days of completion of inspection. 
b) The Seller shall collect the defective or rejected goods from the location indicated 
by the Buyer and deliver the repaired or replaced goods at the same location, 
within mutually agreed period, under Seller‟s arrangement without any financial 
implication on the Buyer.  
7.3.21 Warranty : Following clause should be provided in the RFP where warranty of goods 
being procured is required:  
a) “The Seller will declare that the goods, stores articles sold/  supplied shall be of the 
best quality and workmanship and new in all respects and shall be strictly i n 
accordance with the specifications and particulars contained/ mentioned in the 
contract. The Seller will guarantee that the said goods/ stores/ articles would 
continue to conform to the description and quality for a period of, ___ months from 
the date of acceptance/ installation of the said goods stores/ articles. If during the 
aforesaid period of ___ months, the said goods/ stores are discovered not to 
conform to the description and quality aforesaid, not giving satisfactory 
performance or have deteriorated, the Buyer shall be entitled to call upon the Seller 