167 
 14 CHAPTER 14  
OUTSOURCING OF SERVICES 
14.1 GENERAL  
14.1.1 Rule No. 198 of GFR-2017 iterates that a Ministry or Department may outsource certain 
services in the interest of economy and efficiency and it may prescribe detailed 
instructions and procedures for this purpose without, however, contravening the 
guidelines given in succeeding paragraphs. 
14.1.2 Out sourcing is the act of transferring some of an organization‟s  non-core functions to 
service providers/ contractors. 
14.2 PURPOSE OF OUTSOURCI NG:  
Outsourcing is often used to acquire services for following reasons: 
a) Unavailability of service in-house 
b) Focusing on core services 
c) Reduction in cost 
d) IT support etc. 
14.3 TYPES OF SERVICES THAT MAY BE OUTSOURCED: 
Types of services that are out-sourced by Lab/Estt may be classified in following 
categories: 
a) Services for which specific Government orders have been issued.  
b) Services for which requirements are well known and the skill-set of the service 
provider who can do the job is also well known, and there is no significant 
advantage to have a service provider having higher skill-set. Such services would 
be out-sourced as per the provisions given in earlier chapters. 
c) Services for which minimum skill-set of the service provider who can do the job is 
well known but service provider having higher skill-set would add significant value 
to the outcome because requirements cannot be expressed in quantifiable terms. 
This chapter specifically addresses out-sourcing of such services. 
14.3.1 The following services have been covered under separate orders and, therefore, would 
continue to be outsourced as per those orders.  
a) Outsourcing of services pertaining to Basic Research Services e.g. Contract for 168 
 Acquisition of Research Services (CARS), Contracts for Acquisition of 
Professional Services through IDST (CAPSI) will be governed as per the extant 
orders.  
b) All Security Contracts will be governed as per the guidelines issued by 
Directorate General of Resettlement (DGR)/ Ministry of Defence. 
14.4 IDENTIFICATION OF LIKELY SERVICE PROVIDE RS: 
Lab/Estt will prepare a list of likely and potential service providers/ contractors on the 
basis of formal or informal inquires from other Ministries or Departments or 
Organizations involved in similar activities, scrutiny of „yellow pages‟, and trade 
journals, if available, website etc. 
14.5 SELECTION OF SERVICE PROVIDERS: 
The selection of service provider/ contractor will be done as per any of the following 
methods; as considered appropriate with the approval of CFA as per delegation of 
financial powers in vogue.  
a) Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS):  Under normal circumstances, this 
method of evaluation shall be used for services which are of generic and 
recurring nature for which standard operating procedures have been prescribed 
along with minimum qualifying criteria. The service provider will be selected on L1 
basis only as per the procedures described in preceding Chapters. 
b) Combined Quality Cum Cost Based System (CQCCBS): This method of 
selection shall be used for highly technical projects/ services/ assignments which 
have high impact and hence it is essential to engage highly skilled agency which 
offers their profession al services.  Output of such services is highly dependent on 
the expertise of the service provider. For such services weightage needs to be 
given to higher technical standards, while finalizing the prices. The service 
provider will be selected on L1-T1 basis as per para 14.8 of this Manual.  
14.6 DEMAND INITIATION & APPROVAL UNDER QCBS :  
Demand will be initiated and approved as per the provisions given in Chapter 4 of this 
Manual . CFA will be determined as per the delegation of financial powers in vogue for 
selection of service provider. 
14.7  DEMAND INITIATION & APPROVAL UNDER CQCCBS: 
Selection of service provider under CQCCBS implies that the evaluation of bids will be 
done on the basis of bot h “Non -price Attributes” and “Price Attributes”. The Non-price 