124 
 the relevant papers like demand approval, RFP, TCEC report, CNC minutes and 
waivers sought, if any, will be put up to the appropriate board for expenditure 
sanction as per the delegation of financial powers. Cases beyond financial powers 
of Apex Board will be referred along with recommendations of Apex Board for 
approval of the CFA. 
9.1.5 All sanctions accorded on file will be followed by issue of an order conveying 
expenditure sanction giving details as per para 9.1.1 of this Manual and copy shall be 
endorsed to the paying authority and concerned office of DGADS. 
9.1.6 All CFAs shall maintain sequential details of all expenditure sanctions issued by them. 
A monthly statement of all expenditure sanctions accorded under Stores (Capital) and 
Stores (Revenue) Budget Head would be submitted by Lab/Estt. along with anticipated 
cash outgo to DFMM , DRDO HQ.  
9.1.7 Ex-post -Facto Financial Concurrence : There is no provision under the delegated 
financial powers to obtain ex-post-facto concurrence of Integrated Finance. Cases 
where concurrence of Integrated Finance is not obtained, prior to issue of expenditure 
sanction, though required as per the delegation of financial powers, would be treated as 
cases of breach of rules and regulations and referred to the next higher CFA for 
regularization. Such regularization will be subject to concurrence of IFA to the next 
higher CFA.   
9.1.8 Ex-post Facto Approval/ Sanction of the CFA : Where a proposal is approved, with or 
without the concurrence of Integrated Finance, by an authority not competent to 
sanction that proposal as per the delegation of financial powers, ex-post-facto sanction 
may be accorded by the appropriate CFA (as per delegation of financial powers) with or 
without the concurrence of the Integrated Finance, as the case may be, as per 
delegation of financial powers. 
9.2 PREPARATION OF SUPPLY ORDER:  
9.2.1 The following details will be incorporated in the supply order: 
a) Supply order number and date. 
b) Reference(s) & date(s) of bidder‟s quotation and revised offer submitted at the time 
of CNC meeting, as applicable. 
c) Description of items/stores with detailed specifications including model no., part 
no., make, brand etc. 
d) Quantity required and the accounting unit. 