121 
 8.10 ANALYSIS OF OFFERS FROM FOREIGN BIDDERS :  
Apart from the parameters enumerated earlier in this Chapter regarding analysis, cost 
break up and price indices wherever feasible, efforts should be made to analyze: 
a) The price fixation procedure/ methodology prevailing in the country of the bidder. 
b) The prices of similar products, systems and subsystems wherever available 
should be referred. The database maintained in the respective division connected 
with the procurement of such type of stores should be accessed. 
8.10.1 The foreign bidder may be asked to provide the details of past supplies and contract 
rates, if any, of similar kind of product to other Buyers. 
8.11 TRANSPARENCY IN ASSESSMENT PROCESS :  
Assessment of reasonableness of price is an arduous task, especially where price data 
is not available or in case of overseas purchases.  In such cases, it is important to 
place on record efforts made for arriving at the acceptable price and taking the 
procurement decision. 
 
 
 
 
 
  122 
 9 CHAPTER 9  
EXPENDITURE SANCTION AND ISSUE OF SUPPLY ORDER/ CONTRACT 
9.1 EXPENDITURE SANCTION: 
As per Rule 22 of GFR- 2017, no authority may incur any expenditure or enter into any 
liability involving expenditure or transfer of moneys for investment or deposit from 
Govt. account unless the same has been sanctioned by a competent authority. 
Expenditure Sanction is a written authority from the CFA authorizing expenditure to be 
incurred on procurement. It invariably indicates a reference to the authority/ delegation 
under which expenditure is being sanctioned, the financial implications, the purpose of 
expenditure, relevant budget heads and code heads for booking of expenditure. The 
CFA for the expenditure is determined on the basis of the total expenditure inclusive of 
all taxes & duties and all incidental charges i.e. cost to the Buyer. However taxes and 
duties will be paid to the Seller at actuals on production of relevant documentary 
evidence. It will be clearly mentioned in the S.O/ Contract that the applicable taxes and 
duties will be paid separately at actuals. Amendment to expenditure sanction of 
contracts on account of changes in statutory levies would be approved by the 
competent authority as per para 10.5.2(c).  
9.1.1 The essential elements that need to be shown in a letter conveying expenditure 
sanction are as under: 
a) Reference of Government Authority/ Letter and Schedule/ Sub-Schedule of 
delegation of financial powers under which the sanction/ approval is being 
accorded.  
b) Description of store(s)/ service(s) and quantity 
c) Sanction will indicate basic cost and applicable taxes and duties separately. 
Applicable taxes and duties would be paid at actuals against documentary 
evidence.  
d) Name of the Seller 
e) Category of procurement - whether for Project/ Build- up/ Maintenance  
f) Source of funding 
g) Nature of procurement - whether Revenue/ Capital along with details of Major 
Head, Minor Head, Sub Head, Code No. and Unit Code (as mentioned in the 
Defence Services Classification Hand Book, as amended) 