65 
 shall also be initialed by them with date, particularly the prices, delivery period, details 
of discount offered, and any other financial terms including taxes and duties, which 
should also be encircled and initialed indicating the date. Blank bids, if any, should be 
marked accordingly by the BOC. 
6.26.5 All bids received and opened will be entered in the bid register indicating the names of 
the firms, RFP reference number, file number and other pertinent details. 
6.26.6 In case of alterations/ crossings and cuttings in quotations made by the bidders, 
substituted words should be encircled and initialed with date and time by the officials of 
BOC to make it perfectly clear that such alterations were present on the bid at the time 
of opening. 
6.26.7 All late bids will be declared non-responsive and returned to the bidders unopened. 
6.26.8 BOC will prepare a list of the representatives attending the bid opening event and 
obtain their signatures on the list. The list should contain the representatives‟ name and 
the corresponding bidders‟ na me and their addresses. The authority letters brought by 
the representatives should be attached with this list. This list should be signed by 
officials of BOC with date and time.  
6.26.9 The list of representatives attending the bid opening event, the bid register along with 
the bids which are opened or otherwise will be handed over to MMG. 
6.26.10 In two bid system, only the techno-commercial bids would be opened in the first 
instance. The BOC would sign on all the envelopes containing price bids and hand over 
the same to MMG in a sealed and signed cover.  
6.26.11 In two bid non- CNC cases, price bids of only those firms who have been declared 
technically compliant by TCEC will be opened by BOC and handed over to MMG for 
preparation of CSB as per para 6.32 of this Manual. Technically qualified bidders would 
be called to witness opening of the price bids. 
6.27 INADVERTENT OPENING OF PRICE BID BEFORE SCHEDULE: 
Due care must be taken to avoid o pening of „price -bid‟ before schedule or its opening 
along with “techno -commercial bid” in a two bid system as it is a serious matter . In 
such case opened  price bid would be sealed again in a separate envelope by the 
committee under the signatures of bid opening officers. The incident would be 
recorded in the bid opening register. Chairman BOC will report the matter to the Head 
of the Lab/Estt highlighting the circumstances and reasons. In case Head of the 
Lab/Estt is satisfied that it is an inadvertent opening of price bid, MMG would inform 66 
 the affected bidder about the incident and give him a fixed and reasonable time to 
represent . In case, objection is raised by the bidder by the specified date, the case will 
not be processed further without bidding afresh, otherwise, bid processing will continue 
with the original price bids.  
6.28 PRELIMINARY EXAMINATION OF QUOT ES: 
The purchase cell/ officer should examine the quotations to determine whether they 
are complete in all respects, and check for any computational errors which will be 
rectified on the following basis:  
6.28.1 If there is a discrepancy between the unit price and the total price that is obtained by 
multiplying the unit price and quantity, the unit price shall prevail and the total price 
shall be corrected. 
6.28.2 If there is a discrepancy between words and figures, the amount specified in words 
shall prevail. 
6.29 HANDLING CARTEL FORMATION/ BID RIGGING/ RING PRICES: 
Sometimes a group of bidders quote identical rates against RFP on competitive 
bidding. Such Pool/ Cartel formation is against the basic principle of competitive 
bidding and defeats the very purpose of open and competitive bidding. Such practices 
should be severely discouraged with strong measures and brought to the notice of 
DFMM. Suitable administrative actions like rejecting the offers, reporting the matter to 
Registrar of Companies, Competition Commission of India (CCI), and National Small 
Industries Corporation (NSIC) etc. should be initiated against such firms, on case to 
case basis, as decided by the competent authority. However, this does not cover DGR 
empanelled security service providers. 
6.30 PROCEDURE IN CASE OF INADEQUATE RESPONSE: 
In some cases response may be inadequate (ref er para 6 .6 of this Manual) consequent 
to open/ limited bidding. This situation may arise in single bid system as well as in two 
bid system before or after technical evaluation indicating lack of competition. In such 
situations, following aspects may be examined before proceeding further: 
a) Is it possible to redefine the specifications and make them broad based/ industry 
friendly for wider competition? ( Yes/ No )  
b) Whether time and criticality of requirement permits reformulation of the 
specifications. ( Yes/ No ) 
c) Whether proper vendor selection has been done in case of LBM or wide publicity 