154 
 h) Free Issue Material (FIM) to be used as raw material for use in 
developmental/fabrication contract, would be safeguarded as per the provisions 
of para 6.43.2 (c) and 7.3. 15 of this Manual .  
12.3 INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS (IPR):  
The IPR developed under a developmental contract, funded by DRDO, will be the 
property of Govt. of India. In such cases, the firm will provide technical know-how/ 
design data for production of the item to the designated production agency nominated 
by the DRDO. It will, however, be permitted to receive, upon demand, a royalty free 
license to use these intellectual properties for its own purposes, which specifically 
excludes sale or licensing to any third party. 
12.3.1 Joint IP Rights : In case of design, development and fabrication of capital equipment of 
general nature where no design and development input is provided and only broad 
specifications are given by the DRDO Lab/Estt, and/or the developer is sharing the 
developmental cost, joint IP rights would be considered.  
12.3.2 Even where joint IP rights are accepted, DRDO/ MOD/ GOI reserves the right to 
develop an alternate source. In such cases it would be mandatory for the developer to 
transfer the know-how of the product to the agency designated by DRDO. However, in 
such cases development partner would be entitled to receive license fee/ royalty as per 
mutually agreed terms.  
12.4 TYPES OF CONTRACTS:  
a) Developmental Contract 
b) Fabrication Contract 
12.5 DEVELOPMENTAL CONTRA CT: 
Developmental contract is concluded for the development of an item as per given 
design and specifications by DRDO for producing a specified quantity by the selected 
development partner. These contracts may subsequently lead to placement of 
fabrication/production contracts with unit production cost worked out based on 
successful completion of the contract. 
12.5.1 Developmental contracts are concluded to cover the following contingencies. 
a) Where the industrially engineered models are to be developed by the contractor 
based on the complete design data already evolved in the DRDO Lab/Estt during 
design and development of a laboratory prototype. In such contracts, the 
development would be based on the preliminary design/ technical specifications, 
drawings and other information provided by DRDO Lab/Estt. The contractor will, 