99 
 of the Contract/ SO are not fulfilled by the S eller.”  
7.3.3 Tolerance Clause : This clause provides the Buyer an opportunity to address the 
change in the requirement during the period starting from issue of RFP till placement of 
SO/ Contract. The standard text of this clause is as under: 
“To take care of any change in the requirement during the period starting from issue of 
RFP till placement of the Contract, Buyer reserves the right to increase or decrease 
25% of the quantity of the required goods, proposed in the RFP, without any change in 
the terms and conditions and rates quoted by the Seller. While awarding the Contract, 
the quantity ordered can be increased or decreased by the Buyer within this tolerance 
limit.”  
7.3.4 Option Clause : This clause empowers the Buyer to place additional orders, within the 
currency of the original Contract/SO, for additional quantity up to a maximum of 50% of 
the originally contracted quantity (rounded up to the next whole number) at the same 
rate and terms of the original Contract/SO. The standard text of this clause is as under: 
“The Contract will have an Option Clause, wherein the Buyer can exercise an option to 
procure an additional 50% of the original contracted quantity (rounded up to the next 
whole number) in accordance with the same terms and conditions of the Contract. This 
will be applicable within the currency of the Contract. It will be entirely the discretion of 
the Buyer to exercise this option or not ”. 
7.3.5 Repeat Order Clause : This clause empowers the Buyer to place additional orders up 
to 50% quantity of the original contracted quantity (rounded up to the next whole 
number), within  twelve months from the date of completion of supply under the original 
Contract/ SO, at the rates on not exceeding basis while the terms and conditions will 
remain unchanged. The standard text of this clause is as under:  
“The Contract will have a Repeat Order Clause, wherein the Buyer can order up to 50% 
quantity of the original contracted quantity (rounded up to the next whole number) 
under the Contract within  twelve months from the date of completion of supply under 
the original Contract/ SO. The Repeat Order will have rates on not exceeding basis 
while the terms and conditions will remain unchanged. It will be entirely the discretion of 
the Buyer to exercise the Repeat ord er or not.”  
7.3.6 Purchase Preference Clause : The RFP should inform potential bidders about 
purchase preference as prescribed by the Govt. of India from time to time through 
statutory orders or administrative instructions. The standard text of this clause is as 
under: 