97 
 suspicion of a violation by that Bidder emerges;  
e) The explicit acceptance by each Bidder that the no-bribery commitment and the 
disclosure obligation as well as the attendant sanctions remain in force for the 
winning Bidder until the contract has been fully executed.  
f) Undertaking on behalf of a Bidding company will be made “in the name and on 
behalf of the company‟s Chief Executive Officer”.  
g) Any or all of the following set of sanctions could be enforced for any violation by a 
Bidder of its commitments or undertakings:  
(i) Denial or loss of contracts;  
(ii) Forfeiture of the EMD and Performance cum Warranty Bond;  
(iii) Liability for damages to the Principal and the competing Bidders; and  
(iv) Debarment of the violator by the Principal for an appropriate period of 
time.  
h) Bidders are also advised to have a company code of conduct clearly rejecting the 
use of bribes and other unethical behavior and compliance program for the 
implementation of the code of conduct throughout the company. 
i) The draft Pre-Contract Integrity Pact is attached as Annexure ‘B’. The Bidders 
are required to sign the pact and submit it separately along with the Techno-
Commercial and Price bid.”  
7.2.19 Undertaking from the Bidders : An undertaking will be obtained from the 
Bidder/firm/company/vendor that in the past they have never been banned/debarred for 
doing business dealings with Ministry of Defence/Govt. of India/ any other Govt. 
organisation and that there is no enquiry going on by CBI/ED/any other Govt. agency 
against them. 
7.3 SPECIAL TERMS & CONDITIONS: 
Part III of RFP format contains Special Terms & Conditions pertaining to the 
procurement in question. Part of the conditions may be relevant depending on the 
requirement. A conscious decision needs to be taken to incorporate the relevant 
clauses from this part. The wordings of these clauses can also be appropriately 
modified to suit a particular case. Only relevant clauses should be retained in the RFP. 
While opting the payment terms, Buyer shall keep in mind that the Stage-wise/ Part 
payments and Advance payment should not form a part of payment terms in the RFP 
for the procurement of „Commercially -Off-The- Shelf (COTS)‟ store(s).  