25 
 3.10 EFFECT OF REMOVAL FROM THE LIST :  
Whenever a firm is removed from the list of registered firms, its registration stands 
cancelled and registration status would be updated on centralized database. The other 
Labs/Estts which have already initiated the procurement process with such firm would 
seek information from de-registering Lab and consult DFMM before proceeding further.  
3.11 LEVY OF FINANCIAL PENALTIES AND/OR SUSPENSION/ BANNING OF BUSINESS 
DEALINGS WITH ENTITI ES: 
When the misconduct of an entity justifies levy of financial penalties and/or suspension/ 
banning of business dealings, Lab/Estt should forward the case with full facts, detailed 
justification and supporting documents and circumstances to DV&S, DRDO HQrs for 
taking appropriate action in accordance with the “Guidelines of the Ministry of Defence 
for Penalties in Business Dealing with Entities ”  issued  vide MoD ID No. 
31013/1/2016-D(Vig) Vol. II dated 21.11.2016 and dated 30.12.2016, as amended. 
Under no circumstances, any Lab/Estt shall suspend/ ban any vendor from business 
dealings. 
3.12 PRE-QUALIFICATION OF VENDORS:  
Pre-qualification is a useful method of gaining knowledge of prospective bidders and 
reduces cost and risk for both Buyer and Sellers .  
3.12.1 Realization of high end technology equipment/ turnkey contracts requiring multi-
disciplinary expertise of the bidders at times involves in part or full activities of detailed 
engineering, procurement, sub-contracting, inspection, transportation, erection and 
commissioning. In such cases, contractor is expected to coordinate all the activities and 
supply the item/equipment, complete the erection, commissioning and hand over the 
facility to the Lab/Estt.  Such bidders are required to possess necessary technical and 
organizational skills, financial capabilities, human resources and past experience to 
complete the assignment. There may not be many vendors competent to execute 
complex high value contracts. In such scenario, Lab/Estt may need to interact with 
potential bidders, identify those who are competent (both technically and financially) to 
execute such jobs and make them understand the actual requirement. In such 
circumstances, the normal two-bid system may not yield the desired results and pre-
qualification of bidders may be resorted to screen the potential bidders.  It is intended to 
provide the following benefits: 
a) It promotes quality control in procurement. 
b) Lab/Estt is more confident about the performance of the seller. 26 
 c) Evaluation of bids from qualified bidder results in savings of processing time and 
cost. 
d) Unqualified bidders save the cost of bid preparation which results on lower 
overhead cost for them. 
e) Scale of interest by potential Sellers can be measured and procurement strategy 
planned accordingly.  
f) Less resources are required to process the bids. 
3.13 TYPES OF STORES AND CRITERIA FOR PRE-QUALIFICATION: 
Pre-qualification may be resorted for acquisition/ development of major plants and 
machinery, complex information technology systems, medical equipment, sophisticated 
weapon system, telecom equipment, high end software development and other special 
goods. In these cases, well defined procedures should be followed for the pre-
qualification of vendors.  While doing so, wide publicity would be given through print 
and electronic media. Pre-qualification document would outline the requirements and 
criteria for pre-qualification in unambiguous terms based on the requirement of the 
items and work to be carried out. It should be broad based, objective and must not be 
tailor-made for a few specific brands/ companies. Thereafter, the respondents will be 
pre-qualified as per stated criteria. Subsequently detailed RFP will be issued to all 
qualified vendors and process of two-bid system will be followed. The pre-qualification 
criteria should be based upon, but not necessarily restricted to, the technical capability 
and resourcefulness of the prospective bidders to perform the particular contract 
satisfactorily, taking into account their: 
(i) Experience and past performance on similar contracts;  
(ii) With reference to personnel, equipment, manufacturing facilities; and 
(iii) Financial standing  
3.13.1 Guidelines to Determine Pre-Qualification Criteria : Broadly, following guidelines 
may be referred to determine pre-qualification criteria: 
a) Experience and Capacity:  The financial criteria may be stipulated with a view 
that the contractor needs to allocate his resources to other jobs in hand. The 
percentage of his capacity to be allocated for this work has to be decided based 
on the estimated value of the contract. The turn-over criteria can be set 
considering annual cash outgo. The single order value criteria are used to 