159 
 12.12.2 The EOI will contain the broad specifications and desir ed vendor qualification criteria, 
i.e., details of the resources desired with the firm in developing the product/component. 
The interested firms would be asked to submit the details of infrastructure and 
resources available with them. 
12.12.3 Interested firms will be allowed to visit the Lab/Estt to see the product/ component 
required to be developed or to discuss the specifications of the proposed product. This 
would be indicated in the EOI. 
12.12.4 The Director of the Lab/Estt would constitute a committee to study desir ed resource 
details, the details submitted by the firms and discuss the same with firms to fine tune 
the broad specifications and firm up the vendor qualification criteria for the 
developmental of product/ component. The committee will also estimate cost and time 
required to realize the product. This committee will comprise of Chairman, technical 
expert from a sister Lab/Estt or outside expert from other Govt. Dept./ academic 
institution, MMG rep. and member secretary from User group. Rep of Finance may be 
co-opted, if felt necessary in a given case.   
12.12.5 In addition to above, the other provisions prescribed in the chapter 4 of this Manual will 
be taken into account for processing of EOI. 
12.13 REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL (RFP): 
For developmental/ fabrication contracts, RFP should consist of general information 
regarding the manner and methodology of bid submission, standard terms and 
conditions, special terms and conditions for the contract being contemplated, vendor 
qualification criteria, details of product/component to be developed, evaluation criteria 
for the bids and template for price bid. The RFP ( DRDO. BM.02) will be prepared and 
dispatched to all respondents of EOI as per the provisions given in Chapter 6 of this 
Manual. The applicability of performance security in case of development contracts 
would be governed as per para 12.11 above. While framing the RFP for developmental 
contracts, vendor qualification criteria would be given special emphasis, as it is one of 
the important factors for successful completion of the contract and identification of 
potential bulk production partner. The bidders will invariably be asked to mention Non-
recurring Cost (NRE) with appropriate break-up and cost of prototypes explicitly in all 
cases. 
12.13.1 Acquiring Manufacturing Drawings and Associated Hardware : To develop an 
alternate source of supply of an item developed and productionised by the development 
partner, it is essential that the manufacturing drawings are available with Lab/Estt. 
Since manufacturing drawings are evolved and finalised, it is likely that the 160 
 development partner would claim his rights on such drawings and may not agree to part 
with them. Therefore, suitable clause should be included in the RFP clarifying that 
manufacturing drawings prepared during the development phase shall be the property 
of the DRDO/ Ministry of Defence and will be handed over to DRDO wheneve r 
required. Further, these will also not be used by the development partner for any 
purpose other than stated in the contract, without the written consent of DRDO. All dies/ 
tools/die sets/ jigs/ fixtures/ moulds fabricated under the contract which are charged 
separately will be returned to the Lab/Estt unless specified otherwise in the contract. 
12.13.2 Return of Documents:  Documents, specifications, drawings issued to development 
partner(s) or prepared by them will be property of DRDO and the same will be returne d 
to DRDO on demand. A provision to this effect shall be made in the RFP. A certificate 
to the effect that required documents have been received in the Lab/Estt would be 
furnished by the user. Any loss or damage to these documents shall be recovered from 
the development partner. 
12.13.3 Apportionment of Quantity : In cases where it is decided to award developmental 
contracts to more than one development partner, it should be explicitly specified in the 
RFP. The ratio of splitting of the quantity between various development partners 
including criteria thereof must be pre-disclosed in the RFP as per provisions of para 
6.45.1 of this Manual. The apportionment of the quantity would be done subject to the 
other vendor(s) agreeing to match the negotiated price and terms & conditions of L1. In 
case of deviation, the full order may be placed on the L1 firm, else alternate source 
may be explored through separate bidding .  
12.14 PRE-BID CONFERENCE: 
In case of turnkey contracts or for development of sophisticated and complex 
equipment, a suitable provision is to be made in the bidding document for a pre-bid 
conference for clarifying issues and clearing doubts, if any, about the specification and 
other technical details projected in the bidding document. The date, time and place of 
the pre-bid conference must be indicated in the bidding document and should be 
sufficiently ahead of the bid opening date. 
12.15 REQUIREMENT OF SAMPL E: 
Requirement of samples, if any, would be reflected in the RFP along with the manner 
of their submission. The samples would be taken on no cost no commitment basis. 
Clarifications where required, would be discussed in the pre-bid conference. 