115 
 FOB/FCA cost basis. In addition, they would also indicate CIF/CIP cost. Wherever, 
CIP/CIF Cost is not indicated by a foreign bidder, the FOB/ FCA Cost would be loaded 
by 10% to arrive at CIP/CIF Cost. After arriving at CIP/CIF cost, the bids would be 
further loaded with Custom Duty (CD) & GST (as applicable) which are to be paid extra 
as per actuals and a charge @ 1% of CIP/CIF cost to bring the consignment to the 
Buyer‟s Premises for the purposes of comparison of bids. All the foreign bids would be 
brought to a common denomination in Indian Rupees by adopting Base Exchange Rate 
as BC selling rate of the State Bank of India on the day of last date of submission of 
bids. 
8.4 COMPARATIVE STATEMENT OF BIDS ( CSB ):  
MMG will collate prices of all qualified bids in the form of a CSB. If the prices quoted 
are in foreign/ multiple currencies, the same will be brought to rupee denomination by 
adopting the exchange rate (BC selling rate of SBI) prevailing on the date of the 
opening of price bids. The CSB should be exhaustive and it must include all details 
given in the quotations. Deviations from the RFP and the price bid format should be 
highlighted in the CSB. MMG rep. would sign the CSB and it should be vetted and 
countersigned by rep. of Integrated Finance where either financial powers are to be 
exercised with their concurrence or CNC  cases. 
8.4.1 Determination of lowest acceptable offer : MMG will determine the lowest acceptable 
offer, L1, based on the overall evaluation criteria indicated in the RFP for all non CNC  
cases. Wherever CNC is formed, only CNC will determine the lowest acceptable offer 
(L1 bidder) based on the evaluation criteria indicated in the RFP for award of the 
contract/ supply order .  
8.5 NEGOTIATIONS 
8.5.1 No requirement of convening CNC: To conclude Contract/S.O through open bidding 
mode for stores that are commercially off the Shelf (COTS) with generic/ commercial 
specifications; and support services such as Hygiene & Maintenance, Arboriculture, 
Firefighting, Conservancy, Security Services including DGR cases, wet canteen 
services and support services to DSC platoons, there woul d be no requirement of 
convening CNC.  
8.5.2 Negotiation with L1 Bidder : In multi-bidder cases, once L1 bidder is identified, the 
contract should be concluded with L1 and there would be no need for any further price 
negotiations. Negotiations can be held in exceptional circumstances where valid 
reasons exist and such negotiations should be held only with L1. Exceptional situations 
include procurement of proprietary items, items with limited sources of supply and items 116 
 where there is suspicion of cartel formation. The justification and details of such 
negotiations should, however, be recorded and documented giving reasons for holding 
negotiations. Negotiations through a CNC should invariably be conducted in case of 
single source situations including PAC cases.  Negotiations may also have to be 
conducted in multi-bidder cases where the offered price is considered high with 
reference to the assessed reasonable price. CNC would record its recommendations 
regarding reasonableness of the price offered by the L1 bidder and the need for 
negotiation or otherwise with justification. In cases where a decision is taken to go for 
re-floating of RFP but the requirements are urgent, negotiations may be under taken 
with L1 bidder(s) for the supply of a bare minimum quantity in accordance with para 3 
of CVC instructions dated 3rd March 2006 (for latest guidelines issued by CVC in this 
regard, CVC website may be referred). 
8.5.3 Negotiation with L2 Bidder: If the bidder, whose bid has been found to be the lowest 
evaluated bid withdraws or whose bid has been accepted, fails to sign the procurement 
contract as may be required, or fails to provide the security as may be required for the 
performance of the contract or otherwise withdraws from the procurement process, the 
Procuring Entity shall cancel the procurement process. Provided that the Procuring 
Entity, on being satisfied that it is not a case of cartelization and the integrity of the 
procurement process has been maintained, may, for cogent reasons to be recorded in 
writing, offer the next successful bidder an opportunity to match the financial 
bid/negotiated price of the first successful bidder, and if the offer is accepted, award the 
contract to the next successful bidder at the financial bid/negotiated price of the first 
successful bidder, subject to compliance of following requirements : 
a) Reasonability of the price bid being established by the CNC  
b) The justification that there is no cartelization and the integrity of the procurement 
process has been maintained will be issued by the Director/Head of the Lab/Estt/ 
Procuring Entity 
c) Prior approval of DG Cluster (PMB for Appendix B of DFP)/ CFA (whichever is 
higher) is obtained before negotiating with L2. 
8.6 PRICE BENCH MARKING :  
Before scheduled negotiation, (wherever considered necessary), it would be advisable 
to work out the estimated reasonable rate or the benchmark, to judge acceptability of 
the L1 bidder based on available information. Benchmarking of price should be done 
before opening of the price bids to ensure complete objectivity and fairness and the 
fact that decision to negotiate or not itself depends upon such an assessment. Data 