21 
 firm/vendor that they have not been debarred by MoD/DRDO. Status of barred/banned 
firm may be obtained from the Dte of Vigilance & Security. If a firm has already been 
registered in any other Lab/Estt under certain classification of stores, then its 
duplication shall be avoided.  
3.4.14 The firms approved for registration will be allotted a unique registration number which 
shall remain valid for a fixed period not exceeding three years. The intimation informing 
firm's registration will be sent to them as per DRDO.VR.04 .  
3.4.15 The details of registration will include the MSME status (if applicable) and ownership 
details such as SC/ST as per the guidelines of Ministry of Micro, Small and Medium 
Enterprises ( www.msme.gov.in ). 
3.4.16 In order to facilitate e-payment to the Sellers, information about name of beneficiary, 
name of beneficiary bank, bank account number and IFS Code of receiving branch of 
bank will be taken from the firms/ vendor seeking registration. 
3.4.17 At the end of registration period, the registered vendors willing to continue with 
registration are required to apply afresh for renewal of registration. New vendors may 
also be considered for registration at any time, provided they fulfill all the required 
conditions. 
3.4.18 A register for allotment of registration numbers will be maintained by Labs/Estts for 
each category which will include names of all firms registered with them.  
3.5 REGISTRATION OF FOREIGN FIRMS   
Labs/Estts should maintain a register of foreign firms dealing in various types of stores/ 
items based on their satisfactory experience/  successful execution of SOs/Contracts . 
Details such as type of items, address, telephone/ fax number, subsidiary office of the 
foreign firm in India/ Indian rep (if any), rep for installation & commissioning of 
equipment may be recorded in the register by Lab/Estt.  The VRC will ensure 
maintenance of the register of foreign firms. Firms included in the  Register of Foreign 
Firms as maintained by procuring entity would be considered as Registered Firms A 
list of such firms will be updated regularly on centralized data base on DRONA. 
 
3.6 ENLISTMENT OF INDIAN FIRMS/ INDIVIDUALS AS AN AGENT OF A FOREIGN 
OEM/ FIRMS: 
It is not the policy of Government per se to look for, encourage or engage agents. 
There is no need for engaging any such agent, wherever it is possible to secure 22 
 supplies and ensure after-sale-services etc; on reasonable terms without the 
intercession of agents. However, at times foreign OEM/ firms may employ Indian 
agents for performing certain services on their behalf. Such cases would be governed 
as per Rule 152 of GFR- 2017 and the Compulsory Enlistment Scheme of the 
Department of Expenditure, Ministry of Finance. It would be mandatory for the Indian 
agents to get themselves enlisted with the Lab/Estt or Central Purchase Organisation 
to quote or provide any service on behalf of their foreign principals. Such enlistment, 
however, is not equivalent to registration. 
3.6.1 Procedure for Enlistment with Lab/Estt : Indian Agents of foreign OEM/ firms may be 
considered for enlistment after obtaining following details:- 
a) Name of foreign firm/ Original Equipment Manufacturer represented by the Indian 
representative/ Indian agent; 
b) Agency Agreement with the foreign principal giving details of contractual 
obligation of OEM and its Indian agent and its validity; 
c) PAN, name and address of bankers in India and abroad in respect of Indian 
agent; 
d) The nature of services to be rendered by Indian agent/ Indian representative; and 
e) Commission payable to them by the foreign principal and mode of payment.  
f) Conditions for appointment of agents by foreign vendors as mentioned at para 
7.2.5 would also be applicable. 
3.7 CRITERIA FOR ASSESSMENT OF PERFORMANCE OF REGISTERED VENDORS: 
A vendor performance has to be assessed in a systematic manner for meeting various 
standards set out by the Lab/Estt based on quality, delivery, price and service rating. 
Several rating systems are available wherein some aspects can be objectively rated 
whereas some cannot be, but they shall also be considered while evaluating the 
vendors. Vendor rating provides basis for comparing one vendor against the other for 
the purpose of eliminating the vendors who repeatedly fail to meet the required 
standards. The vendors who are on the regular list should be periodically apprised for 
their performance. VRC will periodically (at least twice a year) review the performance 
of the firms registered with the Lab/Estt and submit report to the Director for further 
necessary action. Performance of vendors registered with other Labs/Estts would also 
be assessed by VRC and performance ratings of vendors will be intimated to the 
registering Lab/Estt. Characteristics for the vendor rating are as under: 