199 
 party related to the contract in exchange for any advantage in the bidding, evaluation, 
contracting and implementation of the contract. 
 
3.2 The BIDDER further undertakes that it has not given, offered or promised to give, 
directly or indirectly any bribe, gift, consideration, reward, favour, any material or 
immaterial benefit or other advantage, commission, fees, brokerage or inducement to 
any official of the BUYER or otherwise in procuring the Contract or forbearing to do 
or having done any act in relation to the obtaining or execution of the contract or any 
other contract with the Government for showing or forbearing to show favour or 
disfavour to any person in relation to the contract or any other contract with the 
Government. 
 
3.3* BIDDERS shall disclose the name and address of agents and representatives and 
Indian BIDDERs shall disclose their foreign principals or associates. 
 
3.4* BIDDERs shall disclose the payments to be made by them to agents/brokers or any 
other intermediary, in connection with this bid/contract. 
 
3.5* The BIDDER further confirms and declares to the BUYER that the BIDDER is the 
original manufacturer/integrator/authorized government sponsored export entity of 
the defence stores and has not engaged any individual or firm or company whether 
Indian or foreign to intercede, facilitate or in any way to recommend to the BUYER or 
any of its functionaries, whether officially or unofficially to the award of the contract to 
the BIDDER, nor has any amount been paid, promised or intended to be paid to any 
such individual, firm or company in respect of any such intercession, facilitation or 
recommendation. 
 
3.6 The BIDDER, either while presenting the bid or during pre-contract negotiations or 
before signing the contract, shall disclose any payments he has made, is committed 
to or intends to make to officials of the BUYER or their family members, agents, 
brokers or any other intermediaries in connection with the contract and the details of 
services agreed upon for such payments. 
 
3.7 The BIDDER will not collude with other parties interested in the contract to impair the 
transparency, fairness and progress of the bidding process, bid evaluation, 
contracting and implementation of the contract. 
 
3.8 The BIDDER will not accept any advantage in exchange for any corrupt practice, 
unfair means and illegal activities. 200 
  
3.9 The BIDDER shall not use improperly, for purposes of competition or personal gain, 
or pass  on to others, any information provided by the BUYER as part of the business 
relationship, regarding plans, technical proposals and business details, including 
information contained in any electronic data carrier.  The BIDDER also undertakes to 
exercise due and adequate care lest any such information is divulged. 
 
3.10 The BIDDER commits to refrain from giving any complaint directly or through any 
other manner without supporting it with full verifiable facts. 
 
3.11 The BIDDER shall not instigate or cause to instigate any third person to commit any 
of the actions mentioned above. 
 
3.12 If the BIDDER or any employee of the BIDDER or any person acting on behalf of the 
BIDDER, either directly or indirectly, is a relative of any of the officers of the BUYER, 
or alternatively, if any relative of an officer of the BUYER has financial interest/stake 
in the BIDDER‟s firm, the same shall be disclosed by the BIDDER at the time of filing 
of tender. 
 
 The term „relative‟ for this purpose would be as defined in Section 6 of the 
Companies Act 1956. 
 
3.13 The BIDDER shall not lend to or borrow any money from or enter into any monetary 
dealings or transactions, directly or indirectly, with any employee of the BUYER. 
 
4. Previous Transgression  
 
4.1 The BIDDER declares that no previous transgression occurred in the last three years 
immediately before signing of this Integrity Pact, with any other company in any 
country in respect of any corrupt practices envisaged hereunder or with any Public 
Sector Enterprises in India or any Government Department in India that could justify 
BIDDER‟s exclusion from the tender process.  
 
4.2 The BIDDER agrees that if it makes incorrect statement on this subject, BIDDER can 
be disqualified from the tender process or the contract, if already awarded, can be 
terminated for such reason. 
 
 
 