195 
 a) Indigenous Vendors:  Bank guarantee issued by any of the Public Sector   Banks or 
scheduled private sector commercial banks should be accepted.  
b) Foreign Vendors:  The Seller will be required to furnish Bank Guarantee from a 
foreign bank of international repute (as per advice received from SBI, Foreign 
Division Branch regarding acceptability of the bank guarantee) drawn in favour of the 
Govt. of India/ Ministry of Defence . 
1.10.2 Advisory Services of SBI : The Buyer may take the advisory services of SBI to 
authenticate the status of the bank from which the BG is being given by the foreign Seller. 
Under ‘advisory’ services to the Buyer e.g. with regard to acceptability of a BG furnished by 
a vendor from a foreign bank, the Bank only checks the risk status of the country and the 
credit rating of the bank in the international market. It, however, does not check the 
language or terms & conditions of agreement contained in the bank guarantee. Therefore, 
it is the responsibility of the Buyer to check the language given in the bank guarantee and 
verify whether it is as per the prescribed format, containing no ambiguity or conditions that 
are not verifiable by the banks. If the SBI advises that the guarantee is from a foreign bank 
of international repute and country-rating is satisfactory, the same will be accepted by the 
Buyer. In case the advice of SBI is that the guarantee is not from a bank of international 
repute with satisfactory country rating and/or a confirmation of a reputed Indian bank is 
required to be obtained, then the guarantee will be got confirmed by an Indian public sector 
bank or a scheduled commercial private sector bank. This confirmation would entail 
additional bank charges to be paid by the Buyer to the Confirming bank towards 
confirmation of the bank guarantee. 
1.10.3 The following additional Services may be availed from SBI: 
a) In case of Sellers from high risk country, BG may be got executed through the 
branch of SBI/ their Correspondent Banks located nearest to the Seller’s country.  
b) List of countries where the SBI has a branch office or tie-ups with correspondent 
banks is available on the SBI Website circular. 
1.11 INVOCATION OF BANK GUARANTEE:   
Guarantees can only be invoked by the Buyer after fulfilling the following conditions: 
a) The claim/ intimation should reach the issuing Bank on or before the expiry of validity 
of date of the guarantee. The claim letter should be faxed immediately and then sent 196 
 physically to be delivered to the bank concerned.  
b) The claim/ intimation should be in strict conformity with the terms of the Guarantee.  
c) Guarantor bank cannot enquire into the merits of the claim or take views on any 
dispute between the applicant and the beneficiary.  
d) On compliance of terms of the guarantee, payments are to be effected immediately 
and unconditionally by the bank. 
 