55 
 c) KVIC, Kendriya Bhandar/ NCCF. 
d) Micro and Small Enterprises (MSEs) as per their registration 
e) Startups as recognized by Dept. of Industrial Policy and Promotion (DIPP). 
6.10.2 Requirement of Bid Security is exempted for all procurements costing (estimated value) 
up to ₹ 1 0 (ten) lakh. In case of development contracts/ Single Bid/ PAC case / 
procurement of spares or repair of stores from OEM , CFA may waive the requirement 
of EMD at the time of demand approval.  
6.10.3 EMD may be accepted in the form of Bank Draft drawn in favour of the Director of the 
Lab/Estt, Fixed Deposit Receipt, Banker‟s Cheque or a Bank Guarantee in acceptable 
form as per DRDO.BG.01 , from any of the nationalized Banks, private sector bank 
authorized for Govt. transactions for safeguarding the B uyer‟s interest in all respects. 
6.10.4 EMD may also be accepted in the form of Bid Security Declaration as per para 6.10.8. 
In case of foreign bidders, EMD / Bid Security in the form of bank guarantee in foreign 
currency will be accepted .  
6.10.5 The EMD should remain valid for a period of 45 days at least beyond the bid validity 
period. 
6.10.6 EMD will be refunded in full without any interest to the unsuccessful bidders after 
finalization of the TCEC/ supply order. For successful bidder, this amount will be 
refunded without any interest afte r receipt of applicable Performance Security Bond. 
6.10.7 Forfeiture of EMD : EMD will be forfeited in the following cases: 
a) If the bidder withdraws / amends/ derogates from the bidding process in any respect 
within the period of validity of bid. 
b) If the successful bidder fails to furnish required Performance Security Bond. 
6.10.8 Bid Security Declaration in lieu of EMD : The procuring entity can accept the bid 
security declaration in lieu of EMD. Bidders may submit a Bid securing declaration 
accepting that if they withdraw or modify their Bids during the period of validity, or if 
they are awarded the contract and they fail to sign the contract, or to submit a 
performance security before the deadline defined in the request for bids document, they 
may be suspended for the period up to  2 years from being eligible to submit bids for 
contracts with any of the procuring entities of DRDO. 56 
 6.11 PREPARATION OF NOTICE INVITING BID (NIB ): 
It should contain salient features of the requirement in brief to give a clear idea to 
prospective bidders about the requirements. Superfluous or irrelevant details should 
not be incorporated in the NIB.  
6.11.1 The notice should normally contain the following information: 
a) RFP reference number. 
b) Nomenclature of the goods and quantity. 
c) Cost of the RFP document. 
d) Amount and form of bid security/ earnest money deposit. 
e) Address of the website from where the RFP document could be downloaded. 
f) Place(s), cost and timing of sale of RFP documents. 
g) Place and deadline for receipt of bids. 
h) Place, time and date for opening of bids. 
i) Any other important information. 
6.11.2 Copy of NIB may also be sent to the known potential bidders to invite their attention. 
6.12 PUBLICITY THROUGH THE WEBSITE: 
All RFP notifications should invariably be posted on the DRDO website and CPP portal 
unless exempted. 
6.12.1 All RFPs on OBM would be e-published on DRDO website and CPP Portal.  
6.12.2 RFPs on LBM/ S BM and PBM would also be e-published on DRDO website and CPP 
Portal. In case Labs/Estts feel that e-publishing a particular RFP may jeopardize the 
procurement, they would require explicit approval of Secretary Defence ( R&D ) with the 
concurrence of Addl. FA (R&D) & JS. Such exemptions may be considered for 
procurements that are sensitive in nature. Labs/Estts would submit the proposal to 
DFMM, DRDO HQ stating reasons for not e-publishing duly approved by their DG 
Cluster for the waiver.  
6.12.3 In case there is no requirement of Non-Disclosure Agreement (NDA), the complete 
RFP document should be posted on the website to enable the prospective bidders to 
download document for bid submission. Cases where NDA is required, the complete 
RFP document would be issued after signing of NDA. 
6.12.4 RFP documents must be secured to avoid possibility of modification and restriction of 