79 
 g) Any waivers from requirement of Performance Security/ Warranty Bond, and LD 
Clause would be considered as deviation from the prescribed procedure and will be 
dealt as per para 1.10 of this Manual except following categories of procurement 
cases, where CFA would accord approval with the concurrence of associated 
Finance:  
(i) Procurement of stores/ services on PAC/ Single Tender basis with approval of CFA 
concerned. 
(ii) Orders for procurement of spares/ repair of stores from OEMs. 
(iii) Procurement of small value procurement (upto Rs.2.5 Lakh). 
6.44 PAYMENT TERMS: 
The payment terms should normally be in accordance with those indicated in the RFP. 
Any change of payment terms from those specified in the RFP can alter L1 
determination. As such CNC must take into account the time value of money as per 
Discounted Cash Flow ( DCF) Technique given in Chapter 8 of this Manual while 
agreeing to any change and record the justification for accepting any variation in 
payment terms from the RFP. The broad payment terms are as under: 
6.44.1 Normal Payment Term : The normal terms of payment are 100% within 30 days after 
receipt & acceptance of stores in good condition or the date of receipt of the bill 
whichever is later. In cases where installation is required and is covered in the scope of 
the order, not more than 80% payment will be released on receipt of goods and 
balance will be paid after installation and commissioning. However based on the merit 
of the case, payment up to 100% against proforma invoice/ delivery may be agreed for 
consumable stores such as chemicals, gases, etc., when insisted upon by the bidder. 
6.44.2 Advance Payment : Ordinarily, payments for services rendered or supplies made 
should be released only after the services have been rendered or supplies made. 
However, it may become necessary to make advance payments in the following types 
of cases:  
a) Advance payments are demanded by bidders for maintenance contracts such as 
servicing of air-conditioners, computers, other costly equipment, etc.  
b) Advance payments demanded by bidders against Project with long execution time, 
development contract, fabrication contracts, turnkey contracts, etc. 
c) Where envisaged earlier and decided to provide advance payment, the quantum 
should be incorporated upfront in the RFP. 80 
 d) Quantum of Advance:  Such advance payments should not exceed the following 
limits: 
(i) 40% of the contract value for PSUs. 
(ii) 30% of the contract value for private firms .  
(iii) Basic amount payable for six months in case of maintenance contracts; 
(iv) For projects sanctioned by GOI through CCS or EC/PC of NCA route, 
advance payments would be considered as per the necessity in line with 
Delegation of Financial Powers in vogue. 
(v) Wherever justified organizations such as NICSI, MTNL, RailTel, BSNL etc. 
which function under the aegis of government departments and payment to 
Air Consolidation Agent towards custom duty for clearance of goods from 
customs authorities will be allowed up to 100% advance payment whenever 
insisted upon either in one-go or in stages approved by the CFA based on 
recommendation of CNC. 
e) Securing the Advance:  While making any advance payment, adequate 
safeguards in the form of bank guarantee or indemnity bond for PSU/ Govt. Dept. 
in favour of the Director of Lab/Estt of appropriate value (~110% of advance 
amount), should be obtained from the Seller. In cases where interim deliveries are 
being provided during currency of the contract and payment commensurate to such 
deliveries are being made as agreed to in Contract, the Advance Payment Bank 
Guarantee (APBG) will be deemed to be proportionately and automatically reduced 
until full extinction. In such cases the Seller would be provided the option to furnish 
separate Bank Guarantees for each lot/batch/deliverable(s) (as specified in the 
S.O/Contract) to simplify the prorated reduction of APBG . Sample format of bank 
guarantee and indemnity bond are given in forms DRDO.BG .02 and DRDO.BG .03 
respectively. Requirement of BG or Indemnity Bond may not be insisted upon and 
should be at the discretion of CFA for Govt. Dept/ reputed academic institutions 
such as IITs etc. or for low value orders up to Rs. 2 lakh to reputed private firms 
when no other mode of payment is acceptable to them. However, following points 
must be ensured: 
(i) Advance paid to the Seller is prone to be used by them for the purpose 
other than the one for which it is disbursed. Therefore, adequate steps must 
be taken to ensure that advance is disbursed against anticipated cash out 
flow and the Seller is not benefited unduly by the way of retention of 
advance when no cash outflow is anticipated.  