144 
 11.5 PROJECTION OF FE REQUIREMENT: 
Labs/Estts are required to forward their consolidated requirement of foreign exchange 
(FE) to DFMM/ DRDO HQ in the month of February for the next Financial Year ( FY) as 
per DRDO.FE.01 . 
11.6 FE RELEASE & NOTING 
11.6.1 Bulk Release & Noting : Allocation of bulk FE and its noting will be made by DRDO HQ 
(DFMM) . This allocation will be made at the beginning of financial year and on as-
required basis. 
11.6.2 Item release by Labs/ Estts/ Program : No separate approval/ sanction for FE release 
would be required for import procurements. The release of FE will only be noted at the 
Budget Cell of the Labs/ Estts. after the expenditure sanction has been concurred by 
financial advisor and approved by CFA as per the delegation of financial power. 
Payment will be made to the beneficiary as per the terms and conditions of the SO/ 
Contract through CDA (R&D)/ Bank concerned. 
11.6.3 FE release would be noted on the basis of CIF/CIP cost. It will, therefore, be ensured 
that amount paid towards customs, freight and insurance charges are noted against the 
foreign exchange allocation even if these are paid in Indian rupees.  
11.6.4 FE release would not be noted in excess of bulk allocation in anticipation of additional 
release from DRDO HQ. Additional allocations will be sought well in advance from 
DFMM to obviate delay. 
11.6.5 Lab will ensure availability of funds in rupee in the relevant budget head to cover FE 
released on cash outgo basis in the financial year. 
11.7 DENOTING/ RENOTING OF FE: 
Unutilized bulk FE allocated to the Lab/Estt by DRDO HQ on cash outgo basis for the 
financial year will lapse at the end of the financial year. Similarly, unutilized item-wise 
financial year release on cash outgo basis for all the cases lapses at the end of the 
financial year and needs to be denoted and renoted, if required, in the next FY.  
a) Bulk Denoting : Surplus FE available with Lab against bulk allocation may be 
denoted by sending a request to DFMM as soon as it is noticed. 
b) Item Denoting/ Renoting : All Denoting/ Renoting of the item-wise FE released 
against item shall be done at Lab level only. 