181 
 Note:  In case documents listed above are not sent in advance to the audit authority, 
they may be called for by such authority at the time of payment of bills/ post audit, 
where applicable. 
16.2.2 Documents to be submitted to paying authority for payment along with the Bill : 
a) For Indigenous Sellers :  
(i) An ink- singed copy of the Contingent Bill/ Seller‟s Bill  duly countersigned  
(ii) An ink-signed copy of the Commercial Invoice 
(iii) A copy of the Supply Order/ Contract and amendments  
(iv) An ink-signed copy of CRV 
(v) Inspection Note/ Progress Report/ Job Completion Certificate/ Installation 
Report, as applicable  
(vi) Bank Guarantee/ Indemnity Bond for advance, as applicable 
(vii) Performance Security Bond and  Warranty Bond, as applicable 
(viii) DP extension and Imposition/ waiver of LD with authority 
(ix) Self certification from the Seller that the GST/any other taxes received under 
the contract would be deposited to the concerned taxation authority . In this 
regard, extant Government orders will be applicable  as communicated by 
DRDO HQ.  
(x) Details for electronic payment 
(xi) Certificate from user confirming receipt of required documents in case of 
Design, Developmental and Fabrication Contract 
(xii) Any other document/certificate that may be provided for in the supply order/ 
contract 
b) For Foreign Sellers:  
(i) Clean on Board Airway Bill/Bill of Lading 
(ii) Original Invoice  
(iii) Packing List  182 
 (iv) Certificate of Origin from Selle r‟s Chamber of Commerce, if any   
(v) Certificate of Quality and year of manufacture from OEM  
(vi) Dangerous Cargo Certificate, if applicable 
(vii) Insurance Policy of 110% value in case of CIF/ CIP contract  
(viii) Certificate of Conformity and Acceptance Test at PDI, if any  
(ix) Phyto-sanitary/ Fumigation Certificate, if any 
(x) Any other documents as provided for in the Contract  
Note: Depending upon the peculiarities of the procurement being undertaken, 
documents may be selected from the list given above and specified in the supply order/ 
contract. 
16.3 PROCESSING OF BILLS: 
All bills received will be registered centrally and processed for payment after ensuring 
the availability of funds under the relevant budget head. The following points will be 
ensured: 
a) Prompt action in case any discrepancy is detected in the contractor's bills. 
b) Bills prepared on prescribed form are pre-receipted bearing revenue stamps on 
bills as applicable.  
c) Amounts are shown both in words and figures and are rounded off to the nearest 
rupee. 
d) The nomenclature of the items and the quantities are in accordance with the 
supply order/ contract. 
e) The amounts claimed on account of incidental charges are admissible as per 
terms and conditions of the order/ contract. 
f) Cash receipts/ certificates are enclosed in support of packing and forwarding 
charges and original cash receipts for postage and insurance are enclosed, 
wherever applicable. 
g) GST Regd. No./ PAN is enclosed. 
h) CRV/ Inspection Report (IR) is enclosed with the bill. Nomenclature of the items 