98 
 7.3.1 Apportionment of Quantity : Cases where apportionment of quantity is desired for 
whatsoever reasons, the ratio of apportionment should be mentioned upfront in the 
RFP:   
“Buyer reserves the right to apportion the quantity among ____ bidders in the ratio of  -
_________ starting from Lowest Bidder (L1) and proceed ing to Next Higher Bidder and 
so on subject to their consent to meet the L1‟s rates as well as terms and conditions, 
as negotiated. The bidders are requested to submit the price bid catering the need of 
apportioned quantity as well as total quantity, else the unit cost of the store(s) for total 
quantity will be considered for the apportioned quantity while evaluating the bid.” 
(Splitting of the quantity should be in favour of L1) . 
 
7.3.2 Performance and Warranty Bond : It is an amount of money paid in advance and held 
in reserve or a written undertaking given by the Seller through his bank as a guarantee 
that he would perform the promised/ contractual obligation as per terms and conditions 
stipulated in the Contract/ SO. The standard text of this clause is as under: 
a) Performance Security Bond  should be for an amount equal to  -----------% of the 
contract value ( inclusive of taxes and duties) in favour of the Director (Lab Name), 
(Place) for safeguarding the Buyer‟s interest in all respects during the currency of the 
contract. In case the execution of the contract is delayed beyond the contracted 
period and the Buyer grants the extension of delivery period, with or without 
liquidated damages, the Seller must get the Bond revalidated, if not already valid. 
The specimen of bond can be provided on request.  
b) To cover the Buyer‟s interest during warranty period, warranty Bond  for an amount 
of 10% percent of the contract value (inclusive of taxes and duties) would be 
obtained from the seller prior to return of performance security bond. Warranty bond 
should remain valid for a period of sixty days beyond the date of completion of all 
warranty obligations. Warranty bond would be returned to the Seller on successful 
completion of warranty obligations, under the contract. The specimen of bond can be 
provided on request. 
i. Indigenous Bidder:  They may be accepted in the form of Bank Draft, Fixed 
Deposit Receipt or a Bank Guarantee. 
ii. Foreign Bidder: They may be accepted in the form of Bank Guarantee or 
Stand-by Letter of Credit from an internationally recognized first class bank .  . 
“The Performance Security /  Warranty Bond will be forfeited by the Buyer, in case 
the conditions regarding adherence to delivery schedule and/or other provisions 