133 
 is verifiable. 
i) DP extension will be approved without prejudice to the right of the Lab/Estt 
to impose LD (para 10.8.2 of this Manual ) depending upon the merit of the 
case. 
10.7.3 The letter of DP extension must cover the salient points as per the provisions of para 
10.7.2 of this Manual. 
10.8 LIQUIDATED DAMAGES (LD): 
10.8.1 Quantum of LD : Depending on the merit of the case, quantum of LD to be charged 
shall be 0.5% per week or part thereof, of the basic cost (excluding taxes & duties on 
final product) of the delayed stores which the Seller has failed to deliver within the 
period agreed for delivery in the contract subject to maximum of 10% of the total order 
value. In cases where partial delivery does not help in achieving the objective of the 
contract, LD shall also be levied on the total cost (excluding taxes & duties on final 
product) of the ordered quantity delivered by the vendor. This will also include the 
stores supplied within the delivery period. However, for development contracts the rate 
of imposition of LD would be @ 0.25% per week or part thereof subject to maximum of 
10% of the total order value. 
10.8.2 Guide lines for imposing/ waiving off LD : Constructive assessment of reasons 
contributing to delayed delivery and assessment of maximum LD will be done in terms 
of preceding para. The following guidelines would be kept in mind while taking decision 
for imposition/ waiving off LD: 
No. Circumstances  Quantum of LD  
1 When the delay in supplies is totally 
attributable to the Seller Full LD may be imposed in 
accordance with para 10.8.1 of 
this Manual  
2 When the delay in supplies is partly 
attributable to the Seller LD for the period for which the 
Seller was responsible for the 
delay  in accordance with para 
10.8.1 of this Manual  
3 The entire delay was attributed to the 
Lab/Estt or the delay was due to 
circumstances beyond the control of 
the Seller which is verifiable   LD may be waived in full  134 
 10.9 OPTION CLAUSE: 
The purchaser retains the right to place orders for additional quantity up to a 
maximum of 50%  of the originally contracted quantity at the same rate and terms of 
the contract. Such an option is available during the original period of contract provided 
this clause has been incorporated in the original contract with the supplier. Option 
quantity during extended DP is limited to 50% of balance quantity after original Delivery 
Period. 
10.9.1 Conditions Governing Option Clause : The conditions governed by Option clause are 
as under: 
a) Option clause can be exercised with the approval of CFA under whose powers total 
value of supplies of original contract plus 50% option clause falls. This option is 
normally exercised only when there is no downward trend in prices as ascertained 
through market intelligence. CVC have also reiterated the need to look at the 
downward trend before exercising option clause. 
b) In case of single vendor OEM, option clause should be normally operated up to 
50% subject to there being no downward trend. However, in multi vendor contracts, 
great care should be exercised before operating option clause up to 50%. 
c) In case provision of option clause has been opted up to a maximum of 50%  of the 
originally contracted quantity, repeat order option will not be applicable .  
d) Option clause would not be invoked for the quantity where the total value of 
supplies of original ordered quantity plus option clause quantity requires convening 
of CNC in non-CNC cases. 
10.9.2 CFA for Option Clause : CFA for the sanction of placement of order under option 
clause would be decided by taking the values of original order & all subsequent orders 
under option clause into consideration. Concurrence of Financial Advisor would be 
obtained as per the delegation of financial powers. 
10.10 TRANSIT INSURANCE COVERAGE: 
10.10.1 Indigenous Procurement : Normally, all procurements from the indigenous sources 
are made on FOR (destination) basis and, therefore, do not require transit insurance. 
Procurements costing above Rs. 2.5 crore, with delivery term other than FOR 
(destination) will be insured. For procurements costing up to Rs. 2.5 crore, with delivery 
term other than FOR (destination), Director will use their discretion to decide whether 
the stores need to be insured or not. It is advised to invariably take insurance for the 
sensitive/ delicate/ fragile/ equipment/ machinery and scientific instruments where 