93 
 “No provision of the Contract/  SO shall be changed or modified in any way (including 
this provision) either in whole or in part except when both the parties are in written 
agreement for amending the Contract/ SO.” 
7.2.16 Taxes and Duties : This clause identifies the taxes and duties admissible and to be 
paid by the respective parties during the course of execution of the Contract/ SO. The 
standard text of this clause is as under: 
Bidders are required to indicate statutory taxes and duties correctly as per the price bid 
format and no column of taxes and duties has to be left blank. Rate (% ) of taxes as 
applicable are to be filled up with „0‟  (Zero) , „positive numerical values‟ or „Not 
applicable‟ in the price bid as asked for in the RFP. If any column of  taxes and duties 
as reflected in RFP is not applicable and intentionally left blank, the reason for the 
same has to be clearly indicated in the remarks column. 
a) In respect of Foreign Bidders:  All taxes, duties, levies and charges which are to 
be paid for the delivery of stores/services, including advance samples, shall be 
paid by the parties under the Contract in their respective countries. However, the 
corporate/ individual income tax, if applicable, will continue to be paid by the 
concerned party/ individual. 
“DRDO is a public funded research institution and has been exempted from the 
payment of Customs Duty, as per the description of stores and conditions 
thereon, under Customs Notification No. 51/96 as amended and Notification No. 
39/96 as amended. However, if required, Basic Custom Duty and applicable cess 
is to be paid as per prevailing notification. [Applicable where INCOTERM is DDP 
(destination)]. ” 
b) In respect of Indigenous Bidders : 
(i) General  
 Bidders must indicate separately the relevant taxes/ duties as per prevalent 
rates for the delivery of completed goods specified in RFP. If a Bidder is 
exempted from payment of any duty/ tax upto any value of supplies from 
them, he should clearly state that no such duty/ tax will be charged by them 
up to the limit of exemption which they may have. If any concession is 
available in regard to rate/ quantum of any Duty/ tax, it should be brought out 
clearly. In such cases, relevant certificate will be issued by the Buyer later to 
enable the Seller to obtain exemptions from taxation authorities. 94 
  Any changes in statutory levies, taxes and duties levied by Central/ State/ 
Local governments such as GST/ Octroi/entry tax, etc on final product 
upward as a result of any statutory variation taking place within contract 
period shall be allowed reimbursement by the Buyer, to the extent of actual 
quantum of such duty/ tax paid by the Seller. Similarly, in case of downward 
revision in any such duty/ tax, the actual quantum of reduction of such duty/ 
tax shall be reimbursed to the Buyer by the Seller. All such adjustments shall 
include all reliefs, exemptions, rebates, concession etc, if any, obtained by 
the Seller. Section 64-A of Sales of Goods Act will be relevant in this 
situation. 
 Levies, taxes and duties levied by Central/ Stat e/ Local governments such as 
GST/ Octroi/ entry tax, etc on final product will be paid by the Buyer on 
actuals, based on relevant documentary evidence, wherever applicable . 
Taxes and duties on input items will not be paid by Buyer and they may not 
be indicated separately in the bids. Bidders are required to include the same 
in the pricing of their product. 
 TDS as per Income Tax Rules will be deducted and a certificate to that effect 
will be issued by the Buyer. 
(ii) Customs Duty: 
 DRDO is a public funded research institution and has been exempted from 
the payment of Customs Duty, as per the description of stores and conditions 
thereon, under Customs Notification No. 39/96 as amended. 
 The successful bidder would be issued a Customs Duty Exemption 
Certificate (CDEC) under the said notification if applicable, at the time of 
import clearance for the goods being imported against the Contract. Bidder 
would be required to submit a copy of their order to principal along with 
principal‟s acceptance and proforma invoice at l east four weeks in advance 
from the expected date of arrival of goods to this office for issuance of 
CDEC.  
 Vendors  may note that issue of CDEC would be governed as per prevailing 
orders.  
(iii) GST :  
 DRDO is a public funded research institution and has been given provision of 