123 
 h) Details of approval of CFA to be provided (Approval of CFA obtained vide Note 
Number___________ dated_____ in file number________) in case sanction is 
communicated on behalf of CFA by an authorised officer 
i) UO Number allotted by Integrated F inance (when the CFA‟s delegated powers are 
being exercised with financial concurrence) or in case of disagreement with finance 
(refer para 1.9 of this Manual), a copy of relevant noting of Financial Advisors & 
CFAs to be endorsed 
j) Unique Sanction Code (USC) as per the guidelines issued by DFMM, DRDO HQ 
9.1.2 Cases where separate expenditure sanction is not required : In cases where 
Expenditure Sanction by the CFA has been accorded on not exceeding basis along 
with the project sanction or at the time of demand approval in accordance with para 
4.10 of this Manual, fresh expenditure sanction will not be required subject to 
compliance of conditions mentioned therein.  
9.1.3 Availability of Funds : A procurement proposal can normally be processed for demand 
approval and expenditure sanction up to the stage of placement of supply 
order/contract subject to availability of funds by the budget holder. Prior to placement of 
supply order/ contract, confirmation of availability of funds in the current financial year 
as per scheduled cash out-go would be ensured by the Lab/Estt. In case of cash out-go 
in the subsequent financial year(s), availability of funds in the respective financial 
year(s) would be ensured. 
9.1.4 Procedure for obtaining expenditure sanction : Prior approval of the competent 
authority would be required to admit deviations, if any, from the purchase procedure in 
vogue before seeking expenditure sanction of the CFA. Expenditure sanction from 
CFA, on file, would be obtained as per following procedure: 
a) Cases falling within delegated financial powers of Project Director/ Program 
Director/ Director/ DG (Cluster):  The procurement file containing all the relevant 
papers like demand approval, RFP, TCEC report, CSB (non- CNC cases) & CNC  
minutes ( CNC cases) and waivers sought, if any, will be put up to the CFA for 
sanction as per delegated financial powers. 
b) Cases falling beyond delegated financial powers of DG (Cluster):  The proposal 
will be submitted to DFMM/ DRDO HQ for obtaining expenditure sanction of the 
CFA. A copy of demand approval, RFP, TCEC report, CNC  minutes and waivers 
sought, if any, will be enclosed along with the proposal. 
c) Cases with Financially Empowered Boards:  The procurement file containing all 124 
 the relevant papers like demand approval, RFP, TCEC report, CNC minutes and 
waivers sought, if any, will be put up to the appropriate board for expenditure 
sanction as per the delegation of financial powers. Cases beyond financial powers 
of Apex Board will be referred along with recommendations of Apex Board for 
approval of the CFA. 
9.1.5 All sanctions accorded on file will be followed by issue of an order conveying 
expenditure sanction giving details as per para 9.1.1 of this Manual and copy shall be 
endorsed to the paying authority and concerned office of DGADS. 
9.1.6 All CFAs shall maintain sequential details of all expenditure sanctions issued by them. 
A monthly statement of all expenditure sanctions accorded under Stores (Capital) and 
Stores (Revenue) Budget Head would be submitted by Lab/Estt. along with anticipated 
cash outgo to DFMM , DRDO HQ.  
9.1.7 Ex-post -Facto Financial Concurrence : There is no provision under the delegated 
financial powers to obtain ex-post-facto concurrence of Integrated Finance. Cases 
where concurrence of Integrated Finance is not obtained, prior to issue of expenditure 
sanction, though required as per the delegation of financial powers, would be treated as 
cases of breach of rules and regulations and referred to the next higher CFA for 
regularization. Such regularization will be subject to concurrence of IFA to the next 
higher CFA.   
9.1.8 Ex-post Facto Approval/ Sanction of the CFA : Where a proposal is approved, with or 
without the concurrence of Integrated Finance, by an authority not competent to 
sanction that proposal as per the delegation of financial powers, ex-post-facto sanction 
may be accorded by the appropriate CFA (as per delegation of financial powers) with or 
without the concurrence of the Integrated Finance, as the case may be, as per 
delegation of financial powers. 
9.2 PREPARATION OF SUPPLY ORDER:  
9.2.1 The following details will be incorporated in the supply order: 
a) Supply order number and date. 
b) Reference(s) & date(s) of bidder‟s quotation and revised offer submitted at the time 
of CNC meeting, as applicable. 
c) Description of items/stores with detailed specifications including model no., part 
no., make, brand etc. 
d) Quantity required and the accounting unit. 