111 
 (ii) Breakdown Maintenance Service:  In case of any breakdown of the 
equipment/system, on receiving a call from the Buyer, the Seller is to 
provide prompt maintenance service to make the equipment/system 
serviceable.   
c) Response Time:  The response time of the Seller should not exceed 
_______hours / days from the time breakdown intimation is provided by the Buyer.  
d) Serviceability of ___% per year is to be ensured. This amounts to total maximum 
downtime of ___days per year. Also un-serviceability should not exceed ___days at 
any given time. Total down time would be calculated at the end of the year. If 
downtime exceeds permitted limit, LD/ Extension/ Termination may be considered 
as per merit of the case as decided by the Buyer.  
e) Technical Documentation: All necessary changes in the documentation 
(Technical and Operators Manual) for changes carried out on hardware and 
software of the equipment will be provided.  
f) During the AMC period, the Seller shall carry out all necessary servicing/repairs to 
the equipment/system under AMC at the current location of the equipment/system. 
Prior permission of the Buyer would be required in case certain components/sub 
systems are to be shifted out of location. On such occasions, before taking out the 
goods or components, the Seller will give suitable bank guarantee to the Buyer to 
cover the estimated current value of items being taken out of location. 
g) Period of AMC may be extended as per mutual agreement subject to satisfactory 
performance. 
h) The Buyer reserves the right to terminate the maintenance contract at any time 
without assigning any reason whatsoever, after giving a notice of ___ months. The 
Seller will not be entitled to claim any compensation against such termination. 
However, while terminating the Contract, if any payment is due to the Seller for 
maintenance services already performed in terms of the Contract, the same would 
be paid as per the Contract terms. 
7.3.24 Price Variation (PV) Clause : Generally, the contract should be entered with a fixed 
and firm price. However, in cases, where it is required to enter into a contract with price 
variation clause, following clause may be incorporated in the RFP: 
a) “(Applicable only if DP is more than 18 Months) – A sample clause is indicated 
below for inclusion in RFP. 
The formula for Price Variation should ordinarily include a fixed element, a 112 
 material element and a labour element.  The figures representing the material 
element and the labour element should reflect the corresponding proportion of 
input costs, while the fixed element may range from 10 to 25%. That portion of 
the price represented by the fixed element will not be subject to variation.  The 
portions of the price represented by the material element and labour element will 
attract Price Variation. The formula for Price Variation will thus be: 
𝑃1 = 𝑃0  𝐹+𝑎 𝑀1
𝑀0 + 𝑏 𝐿1
𝐿0 + ………. − 𝑃0  
Where  
P1 : Adjustment amount payable to the Seller (a minus figure will 
indicate a reduction in the Contract Price)  
P0 : Contract Price at the base level  
F : Fixed element not subject to Price Variation   
a : Assigned percentage to the material element in the Contract 
Price  
b : Assigned percentage to the labour element in the Contract Price  
L0 : Wage indices at the base month and year  
L1 : Wage indices at the month and year of calculation  
M0 : Material indices at the base month and year  
M1 : Material indices at the month and year of calculation  
 
If more than one major item of material is involved, the material element can be 
broken up into two or three components such as Mx, My, Mz . Where price 
variation clause has to be provided for services (with insignificant inputs of 
materials) as for example, in getting technical assistance normally paid in the 
form of per diem rate, the price variation formula should have only two elements, 
viz. a high fixed element and a labour element. The fixed element can in such 
cases be 50% or more, depending on the mark-up by the seller of the per diem 
rate vis-à-vis the wage rates.    
b) Following conditions would be applicable to price adjustment: 
(i) Base date shall be last date of bids submission.  
(ii) Date of adjustment shall be midpoint of manufacture.  
(iii) No price increase is allowed beyond original Delivery Period unless the 
delay is attributable to the Buyer or Force Majeure.  
(iv) Total adjustment will be subject to maximum ceiling of ____%. 