197 
  
PRE-CONTRACT INTEGRITY PACT 
 
General  
 The pre-bid pre-contract Agreement (hereinafter called the Integrity Pact) is made on 
……………day of the month of ……………… Year, between, on one hand, the President of 
India acting through Shri ………………… , Designation of the officer, Ministry/Department, 
Government of India (hereinafter called the „BUYER‟, which expression shall mean and 
include, unless the context otherwise requires, his successors in office and assigns) of the 
First Part and M/s. ……………………  Represented by Shri. ………………… . Chief Executive 
Officer (hereinafter called the “BIDDER/Seller” which expression shall mean and include, 
unless the context otherwise requires, his successors and permitted assigns) of the Second 
Part. 
 
WHEREAS the BUYER proposes to procure (Name of the Stores/Equipment/ Item) and the 
BIDDER/Seller is willing to offer/has offered the stores and 
 
WHEREAS the BIDDER is a Private Company/Public Company/Government 
Undertaking/Partnership/Registered Export Agency, constituted in accordance with the 
relevant law in the matter and the BUYER is a Ministry/Department of the Government of 
India/PSU performing its functions on behalf of the President of India. 
 
NOW THEREFORE, 
To avoid all forms of corruption by following a system that is fair, transparent and free from 
any  influence/prejudiced dealings prior to, during and subsequent to the currency of the 
contract to be entered into with a view to:- 
 
Enabling the BUYER to obtain the desired said stores/equipment at a competitive price in 
conformity with the defined specifications by avoiding the high cost and the distortionary 
impact of corruption on public procurement, and 
 
Enabling BIDDERs to abstain from bribing or indulging in any corrupt practice in order to 
secure the contract  by providing assurance to them that their competitors  will also abstain 
from bribing and other corrupt practices and the BUYER will commit to prevent corruption, in 
any form, by its officials by following transparent procedures. 
 
The parties hereto hereby agree to enter into this Integrity Pact and agree as follows: 
 Annexure ‘ B’ 