85 
 7 CHAPTER 7  
TERMS & CONDITIONS OF RFP 
7.1 GENERAL: 
A contract is a legal document created on the basis of terms & conditions of RFP, 
submitted bid and the revised offer received after negotiation. RFP is the basic 
document on which the contract is formulated. Contractual obligations are governed by 
terms and conditions to protect the interest of both the parties to the contract. It is, 
therefore, necessary to spell out the terms and conditions in the RFP in clear and 
unambiguous manner, so that bidders respond and submit their bid with clarity. The 
RFP format ( DRDO. BM.02) contains reference to the standard as well as special 
conditions in Part II & Part III respectively which bidders would be required to abide 
with. The contract must also include the standard as well as special conditions specific 
to a particular case, as mentioned in the RFP. The Buyer shall provide the requisite 
information. Only applicable clauses would be retained in the RFP.  
7.2 STANDARD TERMS & CONDITIONS: 
Laws of the country are reflected in these terms and conditions, therefore, neither 
deviation from the standard text given in the clauses nor deletion of any of these 
clauses should normally be admitted. In case a deviation from these clauses has to be 
considered/ allowed, approval of DRDO HQ will be required through DFMM. Clause on 
Pre-Integrity Pact is mandatory for cases where estimated cost is above Rs. 100 crore. 
7.2.1 Effective Date of the Contract : Effective date of the contract/ SO is the date from 
which Contract is deemed to have commenced. Time keeping for both the parties i.e. 
Buyer and Seller to carry out their respective contractual obligations starts from this 
date. The standard text of this clause is as under:  
“In case of placement of a supply order, the date of acceptance of the Supply Order 
would be deemed as effective date or as agreed by both the parties. In case a contract 
is to be signed by both the parties, the Contract shall come into effect on the date of 
signatures of both the parties on the Contract (Effective Date) or as agreed by both the 
parties. The deliveries and supplies and performance of the services shall commence 
from the effective date of the Contract.” 
7.2.2 Law : A contract/ SO is a legally enforceable document in a court of Law. Therefore, it is 
very important to specify the country under whose law the contract/ SO will be 
governed and interpreted in the RFP itself. The standard text of this clause is as under: 86 
 “The Contract shall be considered and made in a ccordance with the laws of the 
Republic of India and shall be governed by and interpreted in accordance with the laws 
of the Republic of India.”  
7.2.3 Arbitration : This clause defines the mechanism of dispute resolution and an alternate 
to litigation. The disputing parties hand over their power to decide the dispute to the 
arbitrator(s). The standard text of this clause is as under: 
“All disputes or differences arising out of or in connection with the Contract shall be 
settled by bilateral discussions. Any dispute, disagreement or question arising out of or 
relating to the Contract or relating to product or performance, which cannot be settled 
amicably, shall be resolved by arbitration in accordance with the following applicable 
provision: 
a) For Central and State PSEs:  In the event of any dispute or difference relating to 
the interpretation and application of the provisions of commercial contract(s), 
such disputes or difference shall be taken up by either party for resolution 
through Administrative Mechanism for Resolution of CPSEs Disputes (AMRC) as 
per provisions of Department of Public Enterprises OM No. 4(1)/2013- DPE 
(GM)/FTS-1835 dated 22- 05-2018 as amended.  
b) For Defence PSUs:  The case of arbitration shall be referred to the Secretary 
Defence (R&D) for the appointment of arbitrator(s) and proceedings.  
c) For other Firms:  Any dispute, disagreement or question arising out of or relating 
to the Contract or relating to product or performance, which cannot be settled 
amicably, shall be resolved by arbitration in accordance with either of the 
following provisions: 
“The case of arbitration may be referred to respective CFA or a person appointed 
by him who will be sole arbitrator and the proceedings shall be conducted in 
accordance with procedure of Indian Arbi tration and Conciliation Act, 1996.”  
Or 
“The case of arbitration may be referred to International Centre for Alternative 
Dispute Resolution (ICADR) for the appointment of arbitrator and proceedings 
shall be conducted in accordance with procedure of Indian Arbitration and 
Conciliation Act, 1996. ” 
Or 