59 
 6.15 GENERAL GUIDELINES: 
The common factors to be kept in mind while inviting bids are: 
6.15.1 Indenter may propose the mode of bidding and the system of bid submission to be 
adopted for each purchase; however CFA is the competent authority to decide on the 
mode of bidding and system of bid submission for the procurement as per the 
delegation of financial powers.  
6.15.2 As far as possible, procurement of items shall be sourced from original manufacturers 
unless the original manufactures themselves decline to entertain RFPs and redirect the 
inquiries to their authorized distributors/ dealers. This may happen when the 
procurement is too small to elicit attention of original manufacturers or due to their 
contractual obligations. Adequate care must be taken to discourage mere traders, 
especially in procurement of expensive items, after careful consideration of aspects like 
after-sale- services/ support/ maintenance and manufacturer‟s warranty against 
manufacturing defects.  
6.15.3 Due date & time of submission and opening of bids will be clearly mentioned in the 
RFP. Time gap between submission and opening of bids should generally be kept 
within 24 hours. In two bid system, only techno-commercial bid will be opened on the 
date of opening. 
6.15.4 The day selected for opening of bid should be a working day. Monday or day followed 
by a series of holidays should be avoided, as far as possible. 
6.15.5 Time likely to be taken to secure and study specifications/ drawings by the firm will be 
taken into account, wherever applicable to decide the reasonable time for submission 
of bid. Normally, the reasonable time to be allowed for submission of bids for various 
modes of bidding process is as under:  
a) Open Bidding mode (OBM)- Minimum 21days ( for Indian Bidders)/28 Days ( for 
Global Bidders) 
b) Limited Bidding Mode (LBM)- Minimum 14 Days 
c) Single Bidding Mode/ PAC mode (SBM/PBM) – Minimum 5 Days 
6.15.6 Reduced time frame for submission of bids may be adopted with the approval of CFA in 
the case of e-tendering as permissible; emergent procurement of stores/ services and 
emergent repairs by use of FAX/email etc. 
6.15.7 Realistic validity period of the bids will be specified in the RFP. This period will be fixed 
keeping in view the nature of stores and other administrative formalities. A bid shall 
remain valid for 90 days for single-bid system and up to 180 days for two-bid system 60 
 from the date of opening of bid, unless otherwise specified.  
6.15.8 RFP will be signed for and on behalf of „President of India‟.  
6.15.9 Only relevant clauses from different parts of RFP template, as applicable, will be 
included in the RFP. Non-applicable clauses would be struck off to obviate any 
confusion in the mind of bidders. 
6.15.10 All correspondence with vendors in respect of the RFP and supply order, etc., will 
preferably be done through MMG only. 
6.15.11 The RFP must reflect all special conditions/ clauses required to be incorporated in the 
contract/ supply order. 
6.15.12 Any Purchase preference/ Product Reservation Policy of Govt. applicable to the 
procurement must be mentioned upfront in the RFP. 
6.15.13 In case samples are also required for techno-commercial evaluation, it should be 
mentioned in the RFP that the bidders found technically compliant would have to 
provide specified quantity(ies) of the item on „no -cost-no- commitment‟ (NCNC) basis for 
trial evaluation/ testing. The period within which the bidder must submit the equipment/ 
sample, after being found technically compliant, must be indicated in the RFP. Such 
provision should be included only after obtaining approval of CFA as per delegation of 
powers. 
6.15.14 In case pre-bid conference is required with the prospective bidders for better 
understanding of the RFP requirements, the same shall be mentioned in the RFP with 
the date, time and venue. 
6.16 REFERENCE TO BRAND NAMES IN THE RFP: 
Standards and specification, provided in bidding documents in generic terms shall 
promote the broadest possible competition while assuring the critical performance or 
fulfillment of other requirements for the goods. Reference to brand names, catalogue 
numbers, etc. in the RFP should be avoided. 
6.17 VETTING OF RFP BY INTEGRATED FINANCE: 
To the extent possible Labs/Estts are advised to use the standard RFP as per 
DRDO. BM.02. In case of any deviation from the standard text, CFA may get the RFP 
vetted by Integrated Finance. Waiver of clauses such as Performance Security Bond, 
Warranty Bond and Liquidated Damages (LD) would be dealt as per para 1.10 of this 
Manual. 