87 
 “The case of arbitration may be conducted in accordance with the rules of 
Arbitration of the International Chamber of Commerce by one or more arbitrators 
appointed in accordance with the said rules in India. However, the arbitration 
proceedings shall be conducted in India under Indian Arbitration and Conciliation 
Act, 1996. ”  
7.2.4 Penalty for Use of Undue influence :  This clause informs bidders to undertake that 
they will not use any kind of undue influence for any purpose. Any breach this 
undertaking by the Seller or anyone employed by him or acting on his behalf (whether 
with or without the knowledge of the Seller) entitle the Buyer to cancel the contract and 
all or any other contracts with the Seller and recover from the Seller the amount of any 
loss arising from such cancellation. The standard text of this clause is as under: 
“The Seller undertakes that he has not given, offered or promised to give, directly or 
indirectly, any gift, consideration, reward, commission, fees, brokerage or inducement 
to any person in service of the Buyer or otherwise in procuring the Contract or 
forbearing to do or for having done or forborne to do any act in relation to the obtaining 
or execution of the Contract or any other contract with the Government of India for 
showing or forbearing to show favour or disfavour to any person in relation to the 
Contract or any other contract with the Government of India. Any breach of the 
aforesaid undertaking by the Seller or anyone employed by him or acting on his behalf 
(whether with or without the knowledge of the Seller) or the commission of any offers 
by the Seller or anyone employed by him or acting on his behalf, as defined in Chapter 
IX of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 or the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1986 or any 
other Act enacted for the prevention of corruption shall entitle the Buyer to cancel the 
contract and all or any other contracts with the Seller and recover from the Seller the 
amount of any loss arising from such cancellation. A decision of the Buyer or his 
nominee to the effect that a breach of the undertaking had been committed shall be 
final and binding on the Seller. Giving or offering of any gift, bribe or inducement or any 
attempt at any such act on behalf of the Seller towards any officer/ employee of the 
Buyer or to any other person in a position to influence any officer/ employee of the 
Buyer for showing any favour in relation to this or any other contract, shall render the 
Seller to such liability/ penalty as the Buyer may deem proper, including but not limited 
to termination of the contract, imposition of penal damages, forfeiture of the Bank 
Guarantee and refund of the amounts paid by the Buyer” . 
7.2.5 Agents/ Agency Commission : It is not the policy of Government, per se, to look for or 
encourage or engage agents. There is no need for engaging any such agent, wherever 
it is possible to secure supplies and ensure after-sale-services etc. on reasonable 88 
 terms without the intercession of agents. However, at times, agents may be employe d 
by the OEM for supplies/after sale services. The clause pertains to enlist such agents. 
The standard text of this clause is as under: 
“The Seller confirms and declares to the Buyer that the Seller has not engaged any 
individual or firm, whether Indian or foreign whatsoever, to intercede, facilitate or in any 
way to recommend to the Government of India or any of its functionaries, whether 
officially or unofficially, to the award of the contract to the Seller; nor has any amount 
been paid, promised or intended to be paid to any such individual or firm in respect of 
any such intercession, facilitation or recommendation. The Seller agrees that if it is 
established at any time to the satisfaction of the Buyer that the present declaration is in 
any way incorrect or if at a later stage it is discovered by the Buyer that the Seller has 
engaged any such individual/  firm, and paid or intended to pay any amount, gift, 
reward, fees, commission or consideration to such person, party, firm or institution, 
whether before or after the signing of this contract, the Seller will be liable to refund 
that amount to the Buyer. The Seller will also be debarred from entering into any 
contract with the Government of India for a minimum period of five years. The Buyer 
will also have a right to consider cancellation of the Contract either wholly or in part, 
without any entitlement or compensation to the Seller who shall in such an event be 
liable to refund all payments made by the Buyer in terms of the Contract along with 
interest at the rate of 2% above (i) MCLR (Marginal Cost of Funds based Lending 
Rate) declared by RBI pertaining to SBI for Indian bidders, and (ii) London Inter Bank 
Offered Rate (LIBOR)/ EURIBOR for the foreign bidders. The applicable rates on the 
date of opening of bid shall be considered for this. The Buyer will also have the right to 
recover any such amount from any contracts in vogue with the Government of India. ” 
Or 
The Seller confirms and declares in the Techno-Commercial bid that they have engaged 
an agent, individual or firm, for performing certain services on their behalf. The Seller is 
required to disclose full details of any such person, party, firm or institution engaged by 
them for marketing of their equipment in India, either on a country specific basis or as a 
part of a global or regional arrangement. These details should include the scope of work 
and responsibilities that have been entrusted with the said party in India. If there is non-
involvement of any such party then the same also be communicated in the offers 
specifically. The information is to be submitted as per the format at DRDO.SA.01 . Without 
prejudice to the obligations of the vendor as contained in various parts of this document, 
appointment of an Agent by vendors will be subjected to the following conditions: 
a) Details of all Agents will be disclosed at the time of submission of offers and 
within two weeks of engagement of an Agent at any subsequent stage of 