139 
 a) Performance Security /Warranty Bond will be forfeited and the amount will be 
remitted to Govt. by way of MRO through Public Fund Account in favour of 
concerned CDA (R&D);  
b) Invoke the risk and expense clause if mentioned in the supply order/ contract.  
c) The Seller shall continue to perform the supply order/ contract to the extent not 
terminated.  
d) Any other action as deemed appropriate. 
10.15.3 These provisions at preceding para may be included in all supply order/ contracts. Any 
decision on termination/ short closure of the contract/supply order would be taken by 
the CFA with concurrence of associated finance, if applicable. 
10.16 RISK AND EXPENSE PURCHASE:  
10.16.1 Risk and expense purchase clause could be included in the RFP and the supply order/ 
contract, if considered necessary. Risk and expense purchase is undertaken by the 
Buyer in the event of the Seller failing to honour the contractual obligations within the 
stipulated DP and where extension of DP is not approved. While initiating risk purchase 
at the cost and expense of the Seller, the Buyer must satisfy himself that the Seller has 
failed to deliver and has been given adequate and proper notice to discharge his 
obligations. Whenever risk purchase is resorted to, the Seller is liable to pay the 
additional amount spent by the Buyer, if any, in procuring the said contracted goods/ 
services through a fresh supply order/ contract, i.e. the defaulting Seller has to bear the 
excess cost incurred as compared with the amount contracted with him. Factors like 
method of recovering such amount should also be considered while taking a decision to 
invoke the provision of risk purchase. It may be noted that procurement under Risk & 
Expense Clause must be completed within one year from the date of serving notice to 
the defaulting Seller. 
10.16.2 Alternative remedies to Risk & Expense Purchase Clause : The other remedies 
available to the Buyer in the absence of the risk and expense clause are as follows:  
a) Deduct the quantitative cost of discrepancy from any of the outstanding payments 
of the Seller. 
b) Avoid issue of further RFP‟s to the firm till resolution of the discrepancy.  
c) Bring up the issue of discrepancy in all meetings with the representative of Seller. 
d) Provision for adequate BG to cover such risks. 140 
 e) In case of foreign supply order/contract, approach the Government of the S eller‟s 
country through the Ministry of Defence, if needed.  
 
 
 
 
  