161 
 12.16 BID PROCESSING AND CONDUCT OF CNC: 
All other procedures e.g. bid opening, evaluation of techno-commercial bids, 
conducting of CNC etc., would be done as per the details given in Chapter 6 of this 
Manual. 
12.16.1 Bid Evaluation : In cases where infrastructure requirement for the developmental 
contract has been specified, TCEC will evaluate the feasibility/ verify the infrastructure 
details submitted by the firms in order to assess their manufacturing capability and 
genuine potential for developing the product/ component. 
12.17 BREAK UP OF QUOTED PRICE:  
The vendor should be asked to submit the detailed break-up of cost under the 
headings materials (indigenous/ imported, quantity, cost), labour (number of man 
hours, man hour rates, etc.), design and developmental, drawings and details of 
overheads which will be vetted by the user at the time of CNC. Where applicable, the 
last purchase price (LPP) of imported item or equivalent item may be taken as the 
base price to arrive at the reasonableness of the quoted rates. In case LPP is not 
available the base price will be arrived at by the process of benchmarking which will be 
done prior to opening of the commercial bid. L1 will be determined as per provisions of 
para 8.3 with reference to the developmental cost, including the cost of prototype and 
the total quantity for which the initial orders are to be placed. 
12.18 COST ESTIMATION: 
For all developmental contracts costing above Rs. 5 crore, Director of the Lab/Estt will 
constitute a separate Cost Estimation and Reasonability Committee (CERC) to 
estimate a reasonable cost of the proposed developmental/ fabrication work.  
Invariably user and finance reps would be members of this committee.  
12.19 PRE-REQUISITES FOR PLACING DEVELOPMENTAL/ FABRICATION CONTRACTS:   
The following steps will invariably be followed while entering into a developmental 
contract: 
a) Publication of EOI, where required. 
b) Vendor qualification criteria will be part of RFP.  
c) Non-Disclosure Agreement (NDA) will be signed. 
d) Pre-bid conference will be held if required. 
e) Cost estimate by CERC, as per para 12.18 of this Manual, to arrive at benchmark 