53 
 d) Items to be purchased from a Government specified source.  
e) Where any other m ode of bidding is not considered appropriate in the interest of 
national security.  
f) For technology intensive Projects/Programmes / R&D activities in progress, the 
materials/ components required are available only with a few qualified 
manufacturers/ vendors of repute. In such cases, flexibility will be allowed to 
effect purchases on SBM. 
6.8 AWARD OF PROPRIETARY ARTICLE CERTIFICATE (PAC) STATUS: 
6.8.1 PAC status can be awarded under the following conditions: 
a) Certain goods/ services are proprietary products of a particular manufacturing firm 
having the Intellectual Property Rights (IPR) and the detailed specifications are not 
available with others to manufacture/provide the same. Such goods/ services have 
necessarily to be obtained from the Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM) or its 
sole authorized dealer/ stockist/ distributor on the basis of the information provided 
by the OEM. A PAC may be issued in favour of such OEM as per format 
DRDO.DM.02 , on the advice of the competent technical experts (from within 
Lab/Estt or outside). 
b) PAC status can be awarded for the developed stores to the firm selected and 
qualified as development partner in execution of a development contract when 
associated subsequently for fabrication/ up-gradation/ modification thereof. Orders 
will be placed on PAC basis till such time an alternative source is developed. 
c) PAC status can also be awarded to source services/ spares/ maintenance of 
equipment from OEM/ authorized dealer. 
6.8.2 Caution to be exercised while granting PAC : PAC bestows monopoly and obviates 
competition. Hence, PAC status should be granted only after careful consideration of all 
factors like fitness, availability, standardization and value for money. The spares should 
be sourced from OEM or OEM approved/ recommended manufacturers/ dealers only in 
order to make the OEM responsible for the malfunctioning of the main equipment in 
which the spares have been fitted. 
6.8.3 Authority for Award/ Cancellation of PAC Status :  At the time of award of PAC 
status to a firm, the concurrence of the finance shall be taken. The general declaration 
of PAC status would be approved at the minimum level of Lab Director/ Programme 
Director with the concurrence of Integrated Finance. The PAC status, once granted, wil l 54 
 remain valid for two years from the date of issue unless cancelled earlier by the 
Competent Authority. The PAC award can be cancelled by the issuing authority in 
consultation with their Integrated Finance.  
6.9 PROCUREMENT ON PBM BASIS: 
6.9.1 Procurements on PBM basis will be made from firms awarded with PAC status or their 
sole distributor on the following conditions: 
a) Only a particular firm is the manufacturer of the required goods/ services. 
b) In execution of a development contract from the firm selected and qualified as 
development partner when associated subsequently for fabrication/ up-gradation/ 
modification thereof till such time an alternative source is developed.  
c) In order to ensure compatibility of spare parts/ components with the existing sets of 
equipment as per the advice of the competent technical experts. 
d) When there is a need for standardization of machinery and equipment with existing 
holding. 
e) Repair and servicing of equipment purchased may be got done through the OEM 
approved service provider.  
6.9.2 In cases, where OEM has more than one authorized dealers/ stockists/ distributors/ 
service providers, orders would be placed on them on competitive basis. The CFA for 
such purchases would, however, be determined in accordance with PAC mode of 
bidding.  
6.10 EARNEST MONEY DEPOSIT (EMD)/ BID SECURITY: 
EMD, also known as Bid Security, is taken to safeguard against withdraw al/ alteration 
of bid by the bidder during its validity. Requirement of EMD prevents non-serious 
vendors from making infructuous offers. All un-registered bidders responding to RFP 
will be required to furnish EMD or a Bid Security Declaration in lieu of EMD for an 
amount as indicated in the RFP. In the two bid system, EMD would be deposited along 
with techno-commercial bid. 
6.10.1 EMD will be a fixed amount between 2% to 5% of the estimated cost of the proposed 
procurement, suitably rounded off. The following organizations/ firms are exempted 
from submission of EMD: 
a) Bidders registered with DRDO, Min of Defence, NSIC. 
b) DPSUs, Other Govt. Organizations. 