67 
 has been given in case of OBM . (Yes/ No ) 
d) Whether vendor qualification criteria / special terms and conditions of RFP were 
very restrictive. ( Yes/ No ) 
e) Review if sufficient time was given to the bidders to respond while issuing the 
RFP. Whether the RFP had been properly dispatched and duly received by the 
prospective bidders to whom these were sent. ( Yes/ No ) 
6.30.1 The above examination would be done, based on the information provided by the user, 
by TCEC for two bid system and a Committee (comprising of indenter, technical expert 
from other Group and Rep. MMG) for single bid system. If the examination reveals that 
answer to (a), (b) and (d) are no, and answers to (c) & (e) are yes, recommendations of 
committee would be processed as per para (a) and (b) below . Otherwise, case will be 
re-floated i.e. in case of any doubt about the bidding process or it is considered feasible 
to reformulate specifications/ terms and conditions of RFP/ vendor qualification criteria 
without compromising the requirement, the RFP should be retracted and re-issued after 
rectifying the deficiencies. 
a) Receipt of two quotations (in single bid system) or technically qualified (in 
two bid system): Approval of CFA as per delegation of financial powers for 
OBM / LBM procurements would be obtained for processing the procurement 
case further. 
b) Receipt of only one quotation (in single bid system) or technically qualified 
(in two bid system): Such cases, the mode of bidding should be changed to 
Single Bid without PAC and appropriate approval of CFA as per delegation of 
financial powers would be obtained for processing the procurement case further. 
6.30.2 However, cases with inadequate response, beyond the delegated powers of Secretary 
Defence ( R&D ), would require „ in-principle‟  approval of Secretary Defence ( R&D ) with 
the concurrence of Addl. FA (R&D) & JS for further processing the procurement case. 
Approval of CFA shall be taken at the time of obtaining Expenditure Sanction. 
6.31 RE-FLOATING OF RFP: 
Re-floating will be resorted to only in exceptional circumstances as it entails additional 
costs as well as delays the procurement process. Approval of CFA would be taken as 
per delegation of financial powers for re-floating of RFP. It should be done with utmost 
caution generally under the following circumstances:  
a) Offer(s) do not conform to qualitative requirements and other terms and 
conditions set out in the RFP. 68 
 b) There are major changes in specifications and quantity, which may have 
considerable impact on the price. 
c) Prices quoted are unreasonably high with reference to estimated cost or there is 
evidence of a sudden slump in prices after receipt of the bids. 
d) Where there is lack of competition and there are clear and reasonable grounds to 
believe that the lack of competition was due to restrictive specifications, which 
could have restricted participation. Such cases should, however, be rare as the 
specifications must be formulated with due care.  
e) Before re-floating, Lab should consider if there is a possibility of reviewing the 
specifications/ special terms and conditions/ vendor qualification criteria to meet 
the objective. 
f) In cases where a decision is taken to go for re-floating of RFP but the 
requirements are urgent, negotiations may be under taken with L1 bidder(s) for 
the supply of a bare minimum quantity in accordance with para 3 of CVC 
instructions dated 3rd March 2006 (for latest guidelines issued by CVC in this 
regard, CVC website may be referred). 
g) Withdrawal of offer by L1:  In case the lowest bidder withdraws its offer, 
procuring entity shall cancel the procurement process and re-floating should be 
resorted to except for the cases covered under provisions of para 8.5 .3. While re-
floating, RFP will not be issued to the bidder who had backed out and EMD, if 
any, of such firm should be forfeited or action will be taken as per para 6.10.8.  
h) If the objectives for re-floating are not met when fresh bids are received, Director 
for non CNC cases or CNC may take stock of the situation keeping in view 
changed market conditions, repercussions of further delay, any other factors  and 
recommend accordingly.  
6.32 PREPARATION OF COMPARATIVE STATEMENT OF BIDS ( CSB) IN NON-CNC 
CASES: 
The CSB will be as per the format given at DRDO. BM.04. The Part I of CSB will record 
details of bids received and indicate the ir compliance vis-à-vis the terms and conditions 
of the RFP. Bids without material deviations would be considered in Part II.  Part II of 
CSB will indicate all details of offers, i.e., nomenclature, price, payment terms, 
statutory levies, duties, insurance, packing & forwarding charges, installation & 
commissioning charges, training charges etc., as given in the quotations. In case of 
variation in payment terms quoted by the bidders, the Net Present Value (NPV) 