169 
 attributes comprises of parameters related to technical competency/ managerial ability 
such as availability of qualified personnel and support staff; experience of key 
personnel or availability of in-house QA practices etc. The Price attribute is related to 
the price quoted by the bidders. The demand approval process in such cases would 
inter-alia require compliance of following:  
a) RFP will be prepared and issued with concurrence of finance. Standard format of 
RFP would be appropriately modified to incorporate following: 
(i) Details of work or service to be performed by the contractor. 
(ii) The facilities and the inputs that would be provided to the contractor by 
the Lab/Estt. 
(iii) Eligibility and qualification criteria to be met by the contractor for 
performing the required work or service. 
(iv) The statutory and contractual obligations to be complied with by the 
contractor. 
(v) Suitable evaluation criteria wherein weightages of “Non -price Attributes” 
and “Price Attributes” to be mentioned upfront. 
(vi) In case of outsourcing consultancy services, following Terms of Reference 
(TOR) will be included in the RFP: 
 Purpose/ objective of the assignment; 
 Detailed scope of work;  
 Expected input of key professionals (number of experts, kind of expertise 
required);  
 Proposed schedule for completing the assignment;  
 Reports/deliverables required from the service provider.  
 Background material, previous records etc. available and to be provided 
to the service provider .  
 Procedure for review of the work of service provider after award of 
contract.  
(vii) Standard formats for technical proposal. 
(viii) Standard formats for financial proposal.  170 
 b) Pre-bid Meeting:  A pre-bid meeting will invariably be prescribed in the RFP for 
selection of service provider under CQCCBS. The date and time for such a 
meeting should normally be after 15 to 30 days of issue of RFP and should be 
specified in the RFP itself. During this meeting, the scope of assignment, 
responsibilities of either parties or other details should be clearly explained to the 
prospective bidders so that there is no ambiguity later on at the time of 
submission of technical/financial bids. Where some significant changes are made 
in the terms/ scope of RFP as a result of pre bid meeting or otherwise considered 
necessary by the Lab/Estt, a formal Corrigendum to RFP may be issued. In such 
cases, it should be ensured that after issue of Corrigendum, reasonable time is 
available to the bidders to prepare/submit their bid. If required, the time for 
preparation and submission of bids may be extended suitably. 
c) Two bid system will be followed for all cases irrespective of the cost. The 
submitted bids would be evaluated as per the provisions given for the two bid 
system in Chapter 6 of this Manual. CNC will be conducted for all cases under 
CQCCBS.   
d) CFA will be determined as per the delegation of financial powers in vogue for 
selection of service provider. 
14.8 EVALUATION UNDER COMBINED QUALITY CUM COST BASED SYSTEM 
(CQCCBS) :  
14.8.1 Under CQCCBS, the proposals will be allotted technical and financial weightage 
depending upon the nature of assignment.  
14.8.2 Proposal with the lowest cost, evaluated as per the provision of Chapter 8 of this 
Manual, may be given a financial score of 100 and other proposals given financial 
scores that are inversely proportional to their evaluated cost .  
14.8.3 The total score, both technical and financial, shall be obtained by weighing the quality 
and cost scores and adding them up. The proposed weightages for technical and 
financial shall be specified in the RFP.  
14.8.4 Highest Points Basis : On the basis of the combined weighted score for technical and 
financial, the service provider shall be ranked in terms of the total score obtained. The 
proposal obtaining the highest total combined score in evaluation of quality and cost will 
be ranked as H-1 followed by the proposals securing lesser marks as H-2, H-3 etc. The 
proposal securing the highest combined marks and ranked H-1 will be invited for 
negotiations, if required and shall be recommended for award of contract.  