160 
 development partner would claim his rights on such drawings and may not agree to part 
with them. Therefore, suitable clause should be included in the RFP clarifying that 
manufacturing drawings prepared during the development phase shall be the property 
of the DRDO/ Ministry of Defence and will be handed over to DRDO wheneve r 
required. Further, these will also not be used by the development partner for any 
purpose other than stated in the contract, without the written consent of DRDO. All dies/ 
tools/die sets/ jigs/ fixtures/ moulds fabricated under the contract which are charged 
separately will be returned to the Lab/Estt unless specified otherwise in the contract. 
12.13.2 Return of Documents:  Documents, specifications, drawings issued to development 
partner(s) or prepared by them will be property of DRDO and the same will be returne d 
to DRDO on demand. A provision to this effect shall be made in the RFP. A certificate 
to the effect that required documents have been received in the Lab/Estt would be 
furnished by the user. Any loss or damage to these documents shall be recovered from 
the development partner. 
12.13.3 Apportionment of Quantity : In cases where it is decided to award developmental 
contracts to more than one development partner, it should be explicitly specified in the 
RFP. The ratio of splitting of the quantity between various development partners 
including criteria thereof must be pre-disclosed in the RFP as per provisions of para 
6.45.1 of this Manual. The apportionment of the quantity would be done subject to the 
other vendor(s) agreeing to match the negotiated price and terms & conditions of L1. In 
case of deviation, the full order may be placed on the L1 firm, else alternate source 
may be explored through separate bidding .  
12.14 PRE-BID CONFERENCE: 
In case of turnkey contracts or for development of sophisticated and complex 
equipment, a suitable provision is to be made in the bidding document for a pre-bid 
conference for clarifying issues and clearing doubts, if any, about the specification and 
other technical details projected in the bidding document. The date, time and place of 
the pre-bid conference must be indicated in the bidding document and should be 
sufficiently ahead of the bid opening date. 
12.15 REQUIREMENT OF SAMPL E: 
Requirement of samples, if any, would be reflected in the RFP along with the manner 
of their submission. The samples would be taken on no cost no commitment basis. 
Clarifications where required, would be discussed in the pre-bid conference. 