168 
 Acquisition of Research Services (CARS), Contracts for Acquisition of 
Professional Services through IDST (CAPSI) will be governed as per the extant 
orders.  
b) All Security Contracts will be governed as per the guidelines issued by 
Directorate General of Resettlement (DGR)/ Ministry of Defence. 
14.4 IDENTIFICATION OF LIKELY SERVICE PROVIDE RS: 
Lab/Estt will prepare a list of likely and potential service providers/ contractors on the 
basis of formal or informal inquires from other Ministries or Departments or 
Organizations involved in similar activities, scrutiny of „yellow pages‟, and trade 
journals, if available, website etc. 
14.5 SELECTION OF SERVICE PROVIDERS: 
The selection of service provider/ contractor will be done as per any of the following 
methods; as considered appropriate with the approval of CFA as per delegation of 
financial powers in vogue.  
a) Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS):  Under normal circumstances, this 
method of evaluation shall be used for services which are of generic and 
recurring nature for which standard operating procedures have been prescribed 
along with minimum qualifying criteria. The service provider will be selected on L1 
basis only as per the procedures described in preceding Chapters. 
b) Combined Quality Cum Cost Based System (CQCCBS): This method of 
selection shall be used for highly technical projects/ services/ assignments which 
have high impact and hence it is essential to engage highly skilled agency which 
offers their profession al services.  Output of such services is highly dependent on 
the expertise of the service provider. For such services weightage needs to be 
given to higher technical standards, while finalizing the prices. The service 
provider will be selected on L1-T1 basis as per para 14.8 of this Manual.  
14.6 DEMAND INITIATION & APPROVAL UNDER QCBS :  
Demand will be initiated and approved as per the provisions given in Chapter 4 of this 
Manual . CFA will be determined as per the delegation of financial powers in vogue for 
selection of service provider. 
14.7  DEMAND INITIATION & APPROVAL UNDER CQCCBS: 
Selection of service provider under CQCCBS implies that the evaluation of bids will be 
done on the basis of bot h “Non -price Attributes” and “Price Attributes”. The Non-price 