19 
 deemed as registered vendors and they would get added to the registered vendor data 
base of DRDO. 
3.4.3 No formal application for registration is necessary for the firms already registered with 
other Inter-Service Organizations/ Government Dept/ reputed Scientific Institutions/ 
NSIC etc. If a firm produces a certificate of registration from any of the above, the 
registration committee may consider the registration certificate produced by the firm in 
accordance with para 3.4.11 of this Manual. 
3.4.4 Firms seeking registration with the Labs/Estts will have to apply separately for each 
category in the prescribed application form, available on DRDO website or with 
Labs/Estts, on payment of a non-refundable nominal fee of Rs.500/- payable in the 
form of e-MRO/ bank draft drawn in favour of the “ PCDA/  CDA (R&D), (place) ”. The 
specimen of "Application Form for Registration of Firms" is given at DRDO.VR.01 . 
3.4.5 Eligibility for Registration:  Any firm, registered under the appropriate Act in India, 
who is in the business of manufacturing, stocking or marketing of goods and operating/ 
operator of services of specified categories, shall be eligible for registration. The firm, 
against whom punitive action has been taken, shall not be eligible for re-registration for 
a period of two years or as notified . The registration requests may not be entertained 
from such firms / stakeholders who have any interest in de-registered/ banned firms. 
3.4.6 Criteria for the registration of the firm will be explicit and comprehensive and would be 
publicized. The credentials of firms seeking registration will be verified to ascertain their 
credibility with regard to their financial status, the manufacturing and quality control 
facilities, past performance (for the goods in question), facility for after-sales service, 
the business ethics and  market standing etc. before registering them. Broadly following 
factors will be borne in mind while registering a firm. The firm shall:   
a) Possess the necessary professional, technical and managerial resources and 
competence required.  
b) Have sound financial standing, capacity, reliability, bonafides (Tax returns, Bank 
Account details, Tax Registration details etc.). 
c) Not be insolvent, in receivership, bankrupt or being wound up; 
d) Not have its affairs administered by a court or a judicial officer; 
e) Not have its business activities suspended; and  
f) Not be the subject of legal proceedings for any of the foregoing reasons;  20 
 g) The proprietor or directors and officers should not have been convicted of any 
criminal offence related to their professional misconduct or not otherwise have 
been disqualified pursuant to debarment proceedings.  
3.4.7 The application forms received for registration will be screened by the Vendor 
Registration Committee (VRC) appointed by the Director. The registration committee 
will normally be appointed for a year. The constitution of the VRC will be as follows: 
Sc. „F‟ or above  Chairm an 
Sc. „D‟/ ‟E‟  Member  
Head MMG or Rep  Member Sec retary  
3.4.8 Specialists from the respective fields may be included in the Vendor Registration 
Committee (VRC) while examining the applications of firms seeking registration. 
Director may consider constituting more than one VRC for various types of stores/ 
different categories of registration. The Chairman may co-opt any other specialist 
members if considered necessary. The Director may re-nominate one or all members 
for the next year. 
3.4.9 VRC will scrutinize applications received for registration on periodic basis. VRC shall 
verify the antecedents of the firm and where deemed necessary, the same may be 
verified through the police department/ bankers of the firm as per the proforma for 
"Verification of antecedents of the firms" given at DRDO.VR.02 .   
3.4.10 Capacity verification of the firms seeking registration may be carried out, wherever 
necessary by the registration committee based on the data asked and furnished by 
them as per DRDO.VR.01 . 
3.4.11 The satisfactory performance report of the firms, claiming to have been registered with 
other Government organizations, must be obtained from the concerned organization, to 
assess their suitability before registration. 
3.4.12 In case of firms seeking re-registration, VRC will assess the past performance of these 
firms. In case a firm has not been awarded any order during the currency of last 
registration, the reasons for recommending renewal of registration would be explicitly 
recorded. 
3.4.13 After examination of the application forms and the reports mentioned above, VRC will 
recommend the name/ list of firm(s) found acceptable as per DRDO.VR.03 to the 
Director for approval. Adequate caution would be exercised before recommending any 