75 
 c) Demand approval by CFA 
d) Report of TCEC with technical & commercial CSBs 
e) Other briefing papers, if any 
6.40.1 The member secretary will issue notice, indicating date/ time and venue for scheduling 
of the meeting. He will compile and send agenda papers, duly supported by documents 
to all members so as to reach them at least 3 days in advance. 
6.40.2 All qualified bidder(s) will be informed well in advance to enable them to be present on 
the day of price bid opening/ CNC meeting. 
6.41 GUIDELINES FOR CONDUCTING CNC  MEETING: 
6.41.1 Price Reasonableness : The basic objective of CNC is to establish reasonableness of 
price being paid by the Buyer. This is a complex task and many factors need to be 
considered. Detailed guidelines for determining the reasonable cost are given in 
Chapter 8 of this Manual .  
6.41.2 Scrutiny by CNC : In order to derive maximum advantage for successful materialization 
of the procurement within time schedule at the most favourable rate and payment 
terms, the CNC  will examine the following points before opening the price bids: 
a) Description of the item and basis of estimation. 
b) If requirement is for project, PDC of the project. 
c) Validity of bids. 
d) Registration status of Indian agent where required, commission payable and 
currency in which payable. 
e) Warranty period  
f) Payment terms. 
g) Delivery period .  
h) Other commercial terms e.g. taxes and duties, packing and forwarding charges, 
mode of dispatch, transit insurance cover, place of delivery, etc 
i) Any other point(s) highlighted by TCEC for CNC.  
6.41.3 Opening of Price Bids : The price bids of the technically accepted bids will be opened 
in front of rep of bidders present. Such opening of price bids should only be done when 
the CNC is fully convinced that no issues are left which need to be settled prior to 
opening of bids. All opened price bids will be signed by the CNC  members. 76 
 6.41.4 Comparative Statement of Bids (CSB) for CNC Cases : The comparative statement 
of bids should be prepared with due care showing each element of cost (basic cost, 
taxes, levies, etc.) separately for each bid. The CSB will be as per the format given at 
DRDO.BM.06 The CSB will indicate all details of offers, i.e., nomenclature, price, 
payment terms, statutory levies, duties, insurance, packing & forwarding charges, 
installation & commissioning charges, training charges etc., as given in the bids. In 
case of variation in payment terms quoted by the bidders, the Net Present Value ( NPV) 
method of evaluation may be followed for purposes of comparison as indicated in RFP. 
For a fair comparison and to determine the real cost of procurement, details as given in 
the bids such as delivery ex-godown or FOR destination, transportation, inspection 
costs etc. will be reflected in the CSB. In case cash flow involves more than one 
currency, these should be brought to a common denomination in Rupees by adopting 
exchange rate as per para 8.3.2 of this Manual.   The CSB should be prepared after 
opening of the price bids and will be vetted by the finance rep for its correctness. The 
CSB will be signed by the member secretary and finance member. Assessment of L1 
will be done as per the criteria stated in the RFP. 
6.42 COMMERCIAL EVALUATIO N: 
Evaluation of price bids is the core activity in any purchase decision. If the correct 
evaluation of price bids is not carried out as per the criteria incorporated in the RFP, 
purchase decision may become deficient and faulty. Detailed guidelines on 
establishing reasonability of prices and ranking of bids are given in Chapter 8 of this 
Manual. CNC  will also take into account the provisions of purchase/ price preference 
provided in the RFP in terms of policy directives issued by the Govt. from time to time. 
6.43 COMMERCIAL NEGOTIATIONS: 
It is not necessary to hold commercial negotiations in each case, particularly in open 
and limited mode of bidding, where the response has been substantial and the L1 price 
is found to be very close to the reasonable price, provided such assessment had been 
carried out prior to opening of the price bids. However, commercial negotiation may 
become necessary to ensure that the interest of the State is fully protected and the 
price paid is reasonable. Commercial negotiations are invariably conducted in case of 
single source situations, including PAC cases, or when price is considered high with 
reference to assessed reasonable price, irrespective of the mode of bidding. Such 
negotiations should be conducted by CNC or a duly appointed committee, which 
should invariably include a finance member, unless the negotiation is carried out by the 
committee CFA itself. 
6.43.1 The cost of post-warranty maintenance contracts for high value complex equipment will 