135 
 probability of loss or damage is considered high . Whenever it is decided to insure the 
stores, such insurance would be taken through a nationalized insurance agency or their 
subsidiaries against loss or damage in transit. Insurance cover will invariably be 
obtained from the insurance agency before dispatch of the consignment by the Seller .  
10.10.2 Import : In case of procurement from foreign sources all consignments, on Ex-Works/ 
FAS/ FCA/ FOB/ CPT/ CFR basis, shall invariably be insured.  
10.11 REPEAT ORDER (RO) CLAUSE:  
10.11.1 Provision for repeat order clause should not be made as a matter of course in the RFPs 
as these clauses have an impact on price. RO clause may be provided in the RFP only 
in exceptional circumstances, where the consumption pattern is not predictable. Under 
this clause, the Buyer retains the right to place orders for additional quantity up to a 
maximum of 50%, including order placed under Option Clause, of the originally 
contracted quantity at the same rate and terms of the supply order/ contract .   
10.11.2 Conditions Governing RO : If a demand is received for an item or items previously 
ordered by Labs/Estts or other DRDO Labs/Estts or other Government scientific re-
search institutions, repeat order may be placed without fresh tendering/negotiations , 
even if R.O clause is not mentioned in the Original S.O  provided that :  
a) Items ordered have been delivered successfully. 
b)  The original order was placed on the basis of lowest price negotiated by TPC/NC 
wherever applicable and technically acceptable offer and was not on delivery 
preferences. 
c) The repeat order is placed within twelve months from the date of supply and only 
once by the Lab/Estt, the total quantity to be ordered /purchased on repeat order 
does not exceed 50% of original order. However if the original order was for 
single quantity, repeat order can be made for the same. 
d) The requirement is for stores of identical description/specifications.  
e) The supplier‟s willingness to accept the repeat order on the same terms and 
conditions as per the original order is obtained, where ever R.O clause is not 
mentioned in the Original S.O . 
f) The CFA is satisfied that there is no downward trend in the market price of the 
item and a clear certificate is appended to that effect if the enquiry is floated 
afresh, the expenditure is not likely to be less. 136 
 g) The basic cost (excluding taxes & duties) of repeat order does not exceed the 
basic cost (excluding taxes & duties) of the original supply order. 
h) Quantity discount is sought from the vendor, if applicable. 
i) The taxes and duties as applicable on the date of placement of repeat order will 
be considered. 
j) RO clause would not be invoked for the quantity where the total value of supplies 
of original ordered quantity plus RO clause quantity requires convening of CNC in 
non- CNC cases.  
10.11.3 CFA for the RO :  
a) If proposal for RO emanates from the Lab/Estt which has placed the original 
order : CFA to be decided on cumulative basis (i.e. original cost, plus cost of ROs 
placed, if any, plus cost of the proposal). 
b) If proposal for RO emanates from the Lab/Estt. which has not placed the 
original order but both the Labs/Estts. are in same cluster : CFA to be decided 
on cumulative basis or DG (Cluster), whichever authority is higher. 
c) If proposal for RO emanates from the Lab/Estt. which has not placed the 
original order and the Labs/Estts are placed in different cluster:  Wherever the 
cumulative value  falls within the financial power delegated to DGs, DG (R&M) would 
accord approval. For other cases, CFA would be decided on cumulative basis or 
Secretary Defence (R&D) whichever authority is higher. Such cases will be 
forwarded to DF MM, DRDO HQrs for necessary action. 
10.12 SERVICE CONTRACTS: 
Service contracts would be entered to hire external professionals/ service provider s for 
specific jobs which are well defined in terms of content (scope) and time frame for its 
completion. These contracts would be regulated as per the procedures applicable for 
the procurement of stores in this Manual. Signing of contract should be ensured while 
hiring of services. The contract should have provision of performance evaluation at 
defined periodic interval with the condition that the contract would be terminated 
without cost in case of non-satisfactory performance. 
10.12.1 Extension of Service Contracts : 
Service contracts may be extended with the approval of appropriate CFA at same 
terms & conditions/ price (taxes/ statutory levies will be applicable as per the rate 
prevailing during the extended period), provided: 