145 
 11.8 REPORTING AND MONITORING OF FE: 
The status of FE release/ noting made at Lab/Estt level will be reported periodically to 
DFMM, DRDO HQ. 
11.9 END USE CERTIFICATES: 
In case, End Use Certificate (EUC) is demanded by the Seller for getting export 
clearance, Labs/Estts will provide the same as per the guidelines issued by Directorate 
of International Cooperation (DIC), DRDO HQ from time to time. 
11.10 IMPORT CERTIFICATES: 
For certain categories of stores, Import Certificate is required to facilitate export by the 
Seller from their country. Such certificates will be issued by DIC, DRDO HQ. 
Labs/Estts may approach DIC, DRDO HQ for the same. 
11.11 PAYMENT TO FOREIGN SELLER: 
Payment to foreign Seller is normally made through LC/ DBT as per following 
provisions:  
11.11.1 The LC for the amount payable will be opened as per the milestone specified in the 
order/ contract through the paying authority. In the event of cancellation of a supply 
order/ contract due to reasons beyond control of the Lab/Estt, the banking charges 
already incurred for opening of LC will be regularized as cash loss as per the 
delegation of financial powers. Procedures for payment through LC and DBT are given 
in Anne xure ‘A’  of this Manual. Availability of funds will be as per provisions of para 
9.1.3 of this Manual. 
11.11.2 Advance Payments : Advance payment to a foreign Seller, as per conditions specified 
in the order/ contract would be made against proforma invoice and BG/ Standby LC in 
favour of the Director of the Lab/Estt, for 110% of advance payment, from a first class 
bank. Before payment, Labs/Estts should refer the received BG/ Standby LC to the 
State Bank of India to authenticate the status of the bank from which it is given by the 
foreign Seller. Format of the BG is given at DRDO.BG.02. 
a) Advance payments to Govt. Dept., Govt. research institutions etc. of foreign 
countries would be governed as per the terms and conditions of umbrella 
agreement, if existing, between the two Governments.  
b) The advance payments to the foreign Sellers by Labs/Estts would be subject to 
the Rules of the RBI in force on the date of payment. 146 
 11.11.3 Payment of Training, Installation & Commissioning and AMC Charges : Payment 
for these services should be released after completion of service preferably through 
DBT. 
11.12 INSURANCE COVERAGE: 
The transit insurance coverage will invariably be taken for all procurements on  
Ex-Works/ FCA/ FOB/ CPT/ CFR basis. Air Consolidation Agency (ACA) contract of 
DRDO has provision of mandatory insurance cover for all imports. For destinations not 
covered under ACA Contract or where Labs/Estts is not using the facility of ACA 
contract for whatever reasons, transit insurance coverage will be taken through a 
nationalized insurance agency or their subsidiaries for all imports .  
11.13 SHIPPING AND AIR-FREIGHTING: 
The consignment will be dispatched by the foreign Sellers as per the shipping 
instructions contained in the supply order/ contract. 
11.13.1 Where the mode of transportation of shipment is by sea, the Lab/Estt will follow the 
shipping instructions issued by the Ministry of Shipping & Transport, Parivahan 
Bhawan, Sansad Marg, New Delhi – 110 001. 
11.13.2 For dispatch of consignments by air, the Labs/Estts will follow the instructions given as 
in the ACA Contract concluded by DFMM .  
11.13.3 Cases of direct shipment are to be avoided. However in exceptional cases of direct 
shipment, the Labs/Estts may make suitable arrangement for completing other 
formalities like customs clearance, etc. The services of ACA/ Embarkation HQ may be 
availed after finalizing the terms. 
11.14 CUSTOMS CLEARANCE: 
Government has exempted certain imports made by DRDO from payment of Customs 
Duty through notifications issued from time to time. These benefits will be availed by 
the Labs/Estts on imports by issuing necessary Custom Duty Exemption Certificates 
(CDEC) as per prescribed formats.  
11.14.1 Direct Imports : Direct import implies that Lab/Estt is importing directly from foreign 
Seller. Every financial year, DRDO HQ may authorize one/more officer(s) not below the 
rank of Deputy secretary as nominated by Lab/Estt through a certificate signed by CC 
R&D (R) /DG (R&M) to issue CDECs for all direct imports under custom notification 
51/96 as amended . In addition, direct import by DRDO Labs/ Estts/Programmes is also 
covered under custom notification 39/96 as amended. Govt. may impose custom duty 