33 
 6.43.2(c) and (d) .  
n) Tha t Statement of Case (SoC) / Justification  is enclosed with demand form . SoC 
should clearly bring-out the justification/ reason and other relevant details 
associated with the procurement. It should be kept in mind that expeditious 
processing of proposals depends on the comprehensiveness and quality of the 
SoC. The SoC would be initiated by the indenter and is expected to include: 
(i) Justification for the requirement and quantity. Wherever „Growth of Work‟ is 
envisaged in case of repair/maintenance contracts, same shall be explicitly 
brought to the notice of CFA and explicit approval would be sought for the 
same .  
(ii) Justification for the proposed mode of bidding (if not an open bidding) and 
selection of unregistered bidders, if any, in the list of likely sources. 
(iii) A self-certification that the drawn specifications are not tailored to suit a 
particular brand and are generic to attract competitive bidding if proposed 
mode of bidding is competitive bidding. 
(iv) Basis of estimated cost. 
(v) Justification for each waiver sought. 
Indenter will clearly highlight if Expenditure Sanction is also required from the CFA 
along with demand approval. 
4.5 COST ESTIMATION:  
Correct estimation of rates/ cost is vital for establishing the reasonability of the offers 
received from the bidders. It is, therefore, important that the rates/ cost are worked out in a 
realistic, objective and professional manner on the basis of the prevailing market rates, 
last purchase price, economic indices for raw material/ labour, other input costs and 
assessment based on intrinsic value etc. It is equally important to evaluate the quotations/ 
offers received in response to the RFP correctly to select the best offer. The guidelines for 
assessment of rates/ cost, evaluation of quotations and determining price reasonability are 
given herein. 
4.5.1 Costing of Procurement Proposals: 
a) Need for costing:  The first stage at which costing needs to be done is when the 
proposal is initiated by the indenter. It is necessary to work out the complete cost of a 
procurement proposal to determine availability of funds to meet the expected cash 34 
 outflow and the level at which it would need to be approved. It is, therefore, essential 
that the cost is assessed realistically and comprehensively. The entire, all inclusive, 
assessed cost should be the basis for determining the CFA. 
b) Basis of costing:  The cost of a procurement proposal may be assessed on the 
basis of the Last Purchase Price (LPP), Cost Estimation Reasonability Committee 
(CERC) report, Budgetary Quote obtained from one or more prospective Sellers, 
Market Survey or any other method as may be appropriate in the context of a 
particular purchase proposal. Any one or more of these methods can be used to 
arrive at estimated cost. Cost input may also be taken from other DRDO Labs/Estts 
or other Scientific Organisation of Govt. where Buyer is not confident about the 
estimated cost.  
c) Cost to be worked out in INR : Wherever applicable, the assessed cost should be 
converted into the common denomination of Indian Rupees (INR) and shown both in 
terms of the foreign currency and INR. The exchange rate adopted should be clearly 
indicated. 
4.6 DEMAND INITIATION: 
4.6.1 Authority for Initiating Demand:    
Demands for procurement of stores/ services will be initiated by officers of following 
level duly countersigned by the Head of division/ group: 
Estimated Cost  Minimum Level of Initiation  
Up to Rs. 10 lakh  Sc. „B‟/ TO „B‟ or Equivalent  
Head MMG/ Store Officer (for centrally stocked items)  
Up to Rs. 50 lakh  Sc. „C‟/ TO „C‟ or Equivalent  
Up to Rs. 100 lakh  Sc. „D‟/ TO „D‟ or Equivalent  
Any Value  Sc. „E‟ or Equivalent  
4.6.2 Process of Demand Initiation:    
a) "Demands" will be initiated as per the format at DRDO.DM.01 .  
b) Items falling under different Major Heads of Budget/ Projects shall not be clubbed 
in the same indent to facilitate proper accounting .  
c) For procurement against sanctioned project, it needs to be confirm ed that the 
proposed delivery is within the PDC of the project. Procurement should be 
planned in a manner so as to ensure utilization of ordered stores/ services in the 
Project for the stated purpose. 