189 
 Exporter on presentation of documents  
6)  Reimbursing Bank  - Bank which reimburses the money to the 
negotiating bank  
1.3 TYPES OF LC: 
1.3.1 Following types of LC may be used by the Buyer for making payment to the Seller as per 
the contractual terms and conditions:  
a) Irrevocable LC  
b) Confirmed LC  
c) Revolving LC  
d) Divisible LC 
1.3.2 Irrevocable LC :  A credit in which the Issuing Bank gives a definite, absolute and 
irrevocable undertaking to honour Buyer’s obligations, provided beneficiary complies with 
all terms and conditions, is known as an irrevocable letter of credit. It implies that LC 
cannot be amended, cancelled or revoked without the consent of all parties. All LCs are 
deemed to be irrevocable.  
1.3.3 Confirmed LC : A confirmed LC is one in respect of which another Bank in the 
beneficiary's country adds its confirmation at the request of the Issuing Bank.  This 
undertaking of the confirming Bank to pay/ negotiate/ accept is in addition to the 
undertaking of the issuing bank. This is an added protection to the beneficiary.   
1.3.4 Revolving LC :  In such LC, the amount of credit is restored, after it has been utilized, to 
the original amount thus obviating the necessity of opening a fresh LC for each dispatch/ 
shipment. Revolving LC is used when the Buyer is to receive partial shipment of goods at 
specific intervals over a long duration.  
1.3.5 Divisible LC : A LC could be divisible or non-divisible. Divisible LC could be opened when 
more than one beneficiary is allowed and payment has to be made as per the 
consignment. 
 190 
 1.4 ESSENTIAL ELEMENTS OF LC: 
The LC shall be opened as per the proforma DRDO.LC.01 and essential elements as 
mentioned below are to be clearly stipulated while opening a LC:  
a) Type of LC  
b) Names & addresses of applicant and beneficiary  
c) Beneficiary’s bank details  
d) Amount of credit and currency  
e) Validity of LC  
f) Latest shipment date (delivery date as per contract)  
g) Basis of delivery (FOB/FCA/CIP/CIF)  
h) Supply Order / Contract No. and date  
i) Shipment from . To   
j) Details of consignee and/or ultimate Consignee  
k) Acceptability of part shipment  
l) Acceptability of trans-shipment  
m) List of documents required from beneficiary for release of payment  
n) Applicability and conditions of LD Clause  
1.5 SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS/ PROCEDURE FOR OPENING OF LC AND PAYMEN T 
MECHANISM: 
1.5.1 Process for opening of LC will be initiated by the Lab/Estt, as per the schedule of opening 
of LC in the contract, after receipt of the following documents: 
a) Performance security deposit; 
b) Export clearance, if applicable; 
c) Order acknowledgement; 