23 
 3.7.1 Quality Rating : It pertains to delivery/ rendering of goods/services as per the 
specifications. Quality of goods/ services can be assessed from the inspection/ 
performance report and feedback from the actual users. Quality of supplies is of 
paramount importance and quality rating constitutes main part of the vendor rating. The 
quality rating will have 60% weightage while assessing the performance of the vendor. 
3.7.2 Delivery Rating : It pertains to delivery of goods/ services as per the schedule 
mentioned in the supply order. It is based on the parameters like goods/service 
supplied/rendered within stipulated time and actual delivery/ completion time. The 
stipulated time for delivery rating would be the amended delivery period if extended 
without imposing liquidated damages. The delivery rating will have 30% weightage 
while assessing the performance of the vendor.   
3.7.3 Product Support/ Service Rating : It is related to quality and promptness of the 
response of the vendor after getting the supply order/ contract and till the completion of 
contractual obligations. It includes product support in form of timely support during the 
warranty period.  A part of the service rating can be estimated by assessing the 
cooperation of the vendor and his response in emergency situations after the 
completion of contractual obligations. The product support/service rating will have 10% 
weightage while assessing the performance of the vendor. 
JSG:015:03:2007 as amended, provides “Guidelines for Assessment and Registration 
of Firms for Defence” and relevant BIS guidelines for development of vendor rating 
system. It may be referred to for detailed information and methodology.  
3.7.4 Importance of Vendor Rating : Vendor rating is a beneficial tool not only for DRDO but 
also for the firms. The firms get information regarding their own performance compared 
with competitors. It is a fair evaluation since the rating is based on fact and not on 
opinion. In some cases vendors may be called for a discussion to point out the areas of 
improvement so that vendor becomes more fruitful to the Lab/Estt. Such constructive 
approach based on a judicious rating system will definitely help in improving the 
performance of the vendors. Therefore, performance rating of the vendor should be 
periodically intimated to the vendor. This action is mandatory before initiating any action 
against the vendor on the basis of performance evaluation.  
3.8 DE-REGISTRATION OF FIRMS:  
In case of violation of terms and condition of the registration, the registration of the firm 
will be cancelled by giving a prior notice of at least 30 days. A registered firm is liable 
to be removed from the list of registered firms, if it: 
a) Fails to abide by the terms and conditions under which the registration has been 24 
 given. 
b) Makes any false declaration to the Buyer. 
c) Fails to abide by undertaking given in the Bid Security Declaration.    
d) Other than in situations of force majeure, withdraws from the procurement 
process after opening of financial bids. 
e) Supplies sub-standard goods or uninspected goods. 
f) Renders services (including after sales services and maintenance services) of an 
inferior quality than those contracted. 
g) Fails to execute a contract or fails to execute it satisfactorily. 
h) The required technical/ operational staff or equipment is no longer available with 
the firm or there is change in its production/ service line affecting its performance 
adversely. 
i) Is declared bankrupt or insolvent. 
j) Fails to submit the required documents/ information for review of registration, 
where required. 
k) Adopts unethical business practices not acceptable to the Government. 
l) The performance is rated below par during the evaluation process. 
m) The firm fails or neglects to respond to three consecutive invitations to bid within 
the range of products for which it is registered. 
n) The registration of a firm is cancelled under a Government notification (from list of 
firms) by another department/organization of Government. 
o) Any other ground which, in the opinion of the registering authority, is not in public 
interest. 
3.9 PROCEDURE FOR REMOVAL FROM THE REGISTERED LIST: 
De-registration of approved firms from the list will be considered on the grounds 
mentioned above. It would be done by the registering Lab/Estt under intimation to 
DFMM in DRDO HQ and status of firm on the centralized database would be updated. 
The authority to de-register a firm would be Director of registering Lab/Estt on the 
recommendations of the VRC. 