69 
 method of evaluation may be followed for purposes of comparison as indicated in RFP. 
For a fair comparison and to determine the real cost of procurement, details as given in 
the quotations such as delivery ex-godown or FOR destination, transportation, 
inspection costs etc. will be reflected in the CSB. In case cash flow involves more than 
one currency, these should be brought to a common denomination in Rupees by 
adopting exchange rate as per para 8.3.2 of this Manual. The CSB will be signed by 
the Head of the User Group and Head MMG. Assessment of L1 will be done on the 
basis of criteria stated in the RFP and negotiation, if required, will be carried out only 
with L1.  The case will be further processed as per para 6.42 of this Manual onwards. 
Deviations, if any, from the prevailing procedure and/ or from RFP would be clearly 
recorded in the CSB. 
6.33 EVALUATION OF TECHNO-COMMERCIAL BIDS: 
In a two-bid system, a thorough evaluation of the techno-commercial bids will be 
carried out by a duly appointed Techno-Commercial Evaluation Committee (TCEC). 
The evaluation of techno-commercial bids must be done within the framework of RFP. 
6.33.1 Techno-Commercial Evaluation Committee (TCEC) : A TCEC will be appointed by 
the Director/ Program Director comprising of following officers: 
Sc. „F‟  or above  (from other than user group)  Chairman  
Technical Expert (Sc. „D‟ or above  from other than user group)  Member  
Rep  MMG   Member  
Rep QAC , if required  Member  
Rep User Group  Member Secretary  
In addition, the Constituting Authority may include technical experts from sister 
Lab/Estt and/or outside experts from other Govt. Dept/ Academic Institutions to derive 
technical advantage based on their expertise.  
6.33.2 Finance rep need not be associated with the TCEC. However, in cases where 
commercial terms are to be normalized before opening of Price Bid, a rep from finance 
will be co-opted by the Chairman/ Constituting Authority. 
6.33.3 Evaluation of Technical Bids : The main objective of the TCEC is to prepare 
compliance matrix showing how the technical parameters of bids received are 
compliant with the parameters mentioned in the RFP. TCEC can accept better 
specification being offered after recording the gist of deliberations and reasons/ 
justification for the same provided it is acceptable to the user . This kind of changes 
would not be used to reject any bidder. It is reiterated that TCEC‟s job is to evaluate the 70 
 technical bids from the viewpoint of “compliance to RFP” or “non -complia nce to RFP”. It 
is not open to TCEC to set aside the RFP and start making a de novo exercise of 
finding, which technical bid is acceptable and which is not. 
6.33.4 Normalization of Commercial Terms : TCEC should also evaluate the commercial 
terms such as payment terms, warranty/ guarantee, taxes & duties, End Use Certificate 
(EUC), export license, installation & commissioning, and training etc. to ensure 
compliance of RFP in the bids submitted. Normally commercial normalization after 
opening of bid should be avoided, however, where it becomes essential to bring 
uniformity, finance rep will be involved. All technically acceptable bidders may be 
offered uniform commercial terms. If necessary, they may be given equal opportunity to 
revise/ amend their price bids as per the normalized commercial terms. TCEC minutes 
should appropriately record the same. If, in spite of the efforts made by the TCEC, 
variations persist in commercial terms; this will not form the basis for rejection of 
technically acceptable offers except in case of EUC. Where EUC has to be submitted, 
TCEC should scrutinize the format provided by the technically accepted bidders for its 
acceptability. TCEC can refer the EUC format to the Directorate of International Co-
operation (DIC), DRDO HQ in case need is felt for the same. The decision to reject the 
bid on the basis of EUC can be taken only with the concurrence of DIC. 
6.34 IMPORTANT GUIDELINES FOR THE TCEC: 
For the purpose of proper assessment/evaluation, the TCEC will prepare a techno-
commercial CSB as per format at DRDO. BM.05 bringing out the comparison between 
the specifications/ other terms asked for and that offered by vendors. While preparing 
TCEC minutes, value of technical parameters/ specifications as quoted by bidders 
along with compliance/ non-compliance status must be clearly indicated against all 
parameters/ requirements stated in the RFP. 
6.34.1 The TCEC is empowered to invite/ interact with bidders, who have responded to the 
RFP, for technical presentation/ clarification if considered necessary. Confirmation of 
clarifications received in such meetings/ interactions may be obtained in writing from 
respective bidders. 
6.35 REVISION OF BIDS: 
6.35.1 For minor revision in the technical parameters/ specifications emerging during the 
technical evaluation of bids by TCEC or clarification received from the bidders, which 
does not affect the basic functional requirement of the product, equal opportunity must 
be given to all bidders to re-submit their bids to ensure fair play. 
6.35.2 The original price bid must remain firm/ fixed and no price revision should be permitted 