137 
 a) The performance of the service provider is found satisfactory; and 
b) There is no downward trend in the prices; and 
c) It is administratively convenient to do so. 
d) In non- CNC original order cases, the cumulative value of original contract 
and all subsequent extensions including the proposed one does not require 
convening of CNC. 
10.12.2 Period of Service Contracts : There will be no limitation on duration ( number of years) 
for concluding/ extending AMC/ Service Contracts cases and CFA can approve such 
cases for any period provided the total value of cases for proposed period falls within 
their delegated powers. However, the time frame of the service contract would be 
decided on the merit of the case to attract competent service providers.   
10.12.3 CFA for the Extension of Service Contract : The CFA for the sanction of the 
extension of the service contract would be decided by taking cumulative value of 
original contract and all subsequent extensions including the proposed one, i.e., original 
cost + cost of extended contract(s), if any, plus cost of the proposal.  
10.13 FORCE MAJEURE: 
Neither party shall bear responsibility for the complete or partial non-performance of 
any of its obligations (except for failure to pay any sum which has become due on 
account of receipt of goods under the provisions of the supply order/ contract), if the 
non-performance results from such Force Majeure circumstances as Flood, Fire, 
Earthquake and other acts of God, as well as War, Military operations, blockade, Acts 
or Actions of State Authorities or any other circumstances beyond the control of the 
parties that might arise after the conclusion of the supply order/ contract.   
10.13.1 Intimation regarding Force Majeure : The party for which it becomes impossible to 
meet obligations under this supply order/ contract due to Force Majeure conditions, is 
to notify in written form the other party of the beginning and cessation of the above 
circumstances immediately, but in any case not later than ten days from the moment of 
their beginning.   
10.13.2 Certification of Force Majeure : Certificate of a Chamber of Commerce (Commerce 
and Industry) or other competent authority or organization of the respective country 
shall be a sufficient proof of commencement and cessation of the above circumstances.  
10.13.3 Extension of Time : In such circumstances, the time stipulated for the performance of 
an obligation under the contract is extended correspondingly for the period of time of 138 
 action of these circumstances and their consequences. 
10.13.4 Right to Terminate Supply Order/ Contract:  If the impossibility to complete or partial 
performance of an obligation lasts for more than six months, either party to the supply 
order/ contract reserves the right to terminate the supply order/ contract totally or 
partially upon giving prior written notice of thirty days to the other party of the intention 
to terminate without any liability, other than reimbursement on the terms provided in the 
supply order/ contract for the goods received.  
10.14 DISPUTES/ ARBITRATION: 
All the clauses, terms and conditions of the contract/ supply order will be explicit and 
unambiguous to avoid disputes. If case of dispute, the action will be taken in 
accordance with the dispute resolution or arbitration clause as incorporated in the 
supply order/ contract. 
10.15 TERMINATION OF SUPPLY ORDER/ CONTRACT FOR DEFAULT: 
10.15.1 The Buyer may, without prejudice to any other remedy for breach of supply order/ 
contract, by written notice of default sent to the Seller, terminate the supply order/ 
contract in whole or in part if: 
a) The Seller fails to deliver any or all of the stores or perform any other obligation 
within the time period(s) specified in the supply order/ contract, or any extension 
thereof granted by the Lab/Estt. 
b) When the Seller is found to have made any false or fraudulent declaration or 
statement to get the supply order/ contract or he is found to be indulging in 
unethical or unfair trade practices. 
c) When the item offered by the Seller repeatedly fails in the inspection and/or the 
Seller is not in a position to either rectify the defects or offer items conforming to 
the contracted quality standards. 
d) When both parties mutually agree to terminate the supply order/ contract. 
e) Any special circumstances, which must be recorded to justify the termination of a 
supply order/ contract. 
f) In pursuance of an award given by a Court of Law. 
10.15.2 If the supply order/ contract is terminated in whole or in part; the Lab/Estt may take any 
one or more of the following actions: 