9 
 includes the invitation to pre -qualify.  
25 Pre-Qualification 
Procedure   Means the procedure set out to identify  
potential bidders  prior to formal bidding . 
26 Procurement or Public 
Procurement   
 Procurement refers to the entire gamut of 
activities involved in and the procedures to 
be adopted for acquiring goods and 
services as defined in para 1.3 of this 
Manual.  
27 Promise  The proposal or offer when accepted 
becomes a promise.  
28 Promisee  The party to which a promise is made is 
called the Promisee.  
29 Promisor  The person (entity) making a promise is 
called the Promisor.  
30 Seller   
 Seller is an entity, which enters into a 
contract with the Buyer to supply goods 
and services.  The  term  includes  agents,  
assigns, successors,  authorized  dealers,  
stockists  and  distributors  of  such  an 
entity. Where the context so warrants, 
other terms, such as contractor, have also 
been used synonymously in this Manual.  
 
 10 
 2 CHAPTER 2 
GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF PROCUREMENT 
2.1 GENERAL:  
The authorities vested with the processing and approval of purchases shall adhere to 
the highest standards of financial propriety taking due care and caution as expected 
from a prudent person. Procurements should be made only in cases of proven 
necessity and in an efficient and economical manner. 
2.2 STANDARDS OF FINANCIAL PROPRIETY:  
This Manual, in consonance with Rule 21 of GFR 2017, endorses that every officer 
incurring or authorizing expenditure from public money should be guided by high 
standards of financial propriety. Every officer should also enforce financial order and 
strict economy and see that all relevant financial rules and regulations are observed, 
by his own office and by subordinate disbursing officers. Among the principles on 
which emphasis is generally laid are as following: 
a) Every officer is expected to exercise the same vigilance in respect of expenditure 
incurred from public money, as a person of ordinary prudence would exercise in 
respect of expenditure of his own money. 
b) The expenditure should not be prima facie more than what the occasion 
demands. 
c) No authority should exercise its powers of sanctioning expenditure to pass an 
order which will be directly or indirectly to its own advantage. 
d) Expenditure from public money should not be incurred for the benefit of a 
particular person or a section of the people, unless – 
(i) A claim for the amount could be enforced in a Court of Law, or 
(ii) The expenditure is in pursuance of a recognized policy or custom. 
2.3 GUIDING PRINCIPLES OF PUBLIC BUYING:  
Every authority delegated with the financial powers of procuring goods in public 
interest shall have the responsibility and accountability to bring efficiency, economy, 
transparency and for fair and equitable treatment of firms and promotion of competition 
in public procurement. 
2.3.1 The procedure to be followed for public procurement must conform to the following 