43 
 5.2.4 Approval and processing of Petty Purchase : The Directors/ Project Directors/ 
Program Directors can approve demand against petty purchase to meet small value 
requirements as per delegated powers. All petty purchases made under such delegated 
powers will be compiled monthly and a report, as given in the format at DRDO.DM.05  
will be submitted to CFA by Head MMG. Heads of Divisions should ensure that all 
bought out items have been Brought On Charge (BOC). Stores Management 
Guidelines may be referred for accounting of such purchased items. 
5.2.5 A team comprising minimum two officials, including one officer nominated by CFA will 
be deputed to make petty purchases. The petty purchases will be made on the verbal 
enquiries by this team on the spot, preferably from authorized dealers/ agencies. 
5.2.6 This team will certify in respect of each item that the purchase made by them was the 
cheapest or alternatively record reasons for the purchase at higher cost. The team will 
render a certificate as per following format: 
“We _________________, are jointly and individually satisfied that these 
goods/services purchased are of requisite quality and specifications and have been 
purchased from a reliable source/ service provider at a reasonable price.”  
5.2.7 Petty purchase by trial team leaders for trials outside Lab/Estt Premises : Trial 
team leader will be specifically authorized by the CFA for hiring of vehicles and making 
on-the-spot urgent petty purchases for each individual item up to the delegated petty 
purchase power. These purchases will be effected through verbal enquiries by a team 
of two persons, one of whom will be an officer, from the local market. The trial team 
leader will record a certificate as per para 5.2.6 of this Manual. For this purpose, the 
trial team leader will be authorized to carry a lump sum amount as required. The 
settlement of such advances will be completed within 15 days after return from the 
trials. 
Note:  The word “trial” is defined as “For this purpose, trial will be that activity wherein 
an appropriate trial directive has been issued by the Directors of Labs/Estts/ 
appropriate user authority. Such a directive will include nomination of a trial team 
indicating members along with the leader, specifying scope of trial to be conducted in 
the field/combat environment such as battle terrain, sea- borne or airborne.”  
5.2.8 Petty purchase at outstation : When petty purchase at outstation is necessitated to 
meet emergency/ special requirements or due to non-availability of stores at the local 
station, approval of the CFA will be necessary to make such purchases. 
5.2.9 Drawl and settlement of advances in petty purchase :  Project/ Group Heads will 44 
 consolidate their requirements against demands for which petty purchase has to be 
done and forward the same as per proforma at DRDO.DM.06  to the Accounts Officer in 
advance. The Accounts Officer will approach CFA for approval of consolidated 
demands. Thereafter, user will be informed and Accounts Officer will give cash for 
procurement. 
a) On the intended day of petty purchase, the nominated officer will draw cash 
advance from the Accounts Officer. 
b) Petty purchases will be completed within two working days from the date of 
drawal of cash.   
c) A printed Cash Memo will be obtained, clearly indicating description of stores, 
unit of accounting, prices and taxes charged. In case of Bill/Invoice, payment 
receipt will also be taken. 
d) The details of petty purchased items will be entered in the register maintained at 
the gate security office before entering the Lab/Estt. Cash-memo/ Invoice/ bill will 
be authenticated on the reverse by the security staff on duty.   
e) After completion of the petty purchase, prompt action will be taken for settlement 
of advance. One copy each of Cash Memo / Bill & Receipt will be handed over to 
the Accounts Officer/ Advance Paying Officer along with the consolidated 
statement of advance drawn and the amount actually spent on the petty 
purchase. The relevant proforma to be used up to the final settlement are given in 
DRDO.DM.06  (on reverse). Balance amount will be refunded in full settlement of 
advance within a day after completion of the purchase.  
f) One copy of the Cash Memo/ Bill & Receipt will be sent to MMG for centralized 
accounting of petty purchase items. 
5.2.10 Special dispensation for remotely located Labs/Estts : Some of DRDO Labs are 
located in snowbound and other remote areas, which are communication-wise, 
industrially and commercially under-developed. These Labs, besides their normal 
activities, are called upon to provide support to the Services and local population in 
disaster management. The Labs/Estts may approach DFMM, DRDO HQ to seek 
additional budget allocation and enhancement of their delegated petty purchase powers 
to meet the emergency. 
5.2.11 Purchase of Drugs/ Medicines : The medicines in the Labs/Estts may be procured to 
meet the immediate requirements of MI rooms/ dispensaries located within the 