155 
 however, prepare production/working drawings, material specifications and other 
documents and develop an industrially engineered model. The development 
partner would guarantee the material, workmanship and performance of the 
equipment for a specific period. 
b) Where designing, developing and engineering are to be undertaken by the 
development partner as per given specifications under guidance of the DRDO 
Lab/Estt, the expertise available in the industry will be utilized for accomplishment 
of developmental task within stipulated time frame. Such contracts should 
envisage the development of an industrially engineered model/ equipment and 
supply of the same at various stages of progress of trial with drawings and other 
related documents by the development partner as required. The development 
partner would also be required to submit technical document stipulating 
guarantee for the design, material, workmanship and performance of the 
equipment for a specific period. 
12.6 TYPES OF DEVELOPMENTAL CONTRACTS:  
Developmental contracts will normally be of the following types : 
a) Firm-Fixed-Price Contract. 
b) Fixed Price Contract with Price Variation Clause. 
c) Fixed Price Contract providing for Re-determination of Price. 
d) Fixed Price Incentive Contract. 
e) Cost Plus Contract. 
Brief description/scope on each type of contract is given below: 
12.6.1 Firm-Fixed-Price Contract : Firm fixed price contract means a contract in which a lump 
sum amount is agreed upon for development/indigenization and supply of the 
equipment based on data/ specifications supplied and which is not subject to any 
adjustment during the performance of the contract due to any reasons whatsoever. The 
firm or the contractor assumes full financial responsibility in the form of profit or loss. 
This type of contract is best suited when reasonably definite design or performance 
specification is available and when Lab/Estt of DRDO can estimate reasonable price of 
development/ indigenization.  
12.6.2 Fixed Price Contract with Price Variation Clause : This is the same as the firm-fixed-
price contract, except that upward or downward revision of contracted price can be 
allowed on occurrence of certain contingencies beyond the control of the firm/contractor 
such as increase/ decrease in wages or cost of material. An escalation formula must be 