147 
 which needs to be paid in spite of issuing CDEC. Lab/Estt would take suitable action for 
the payment of customs duty directly or through clearing agent. 
a) Following documents will be required to clear the goods from customs: 
(i) Original Bill of Lading duly endorsed by bank and consignee (for ship 
consignments), 
                                 Or  
Original Air Way Bill (AWB) or Bank Release Order (BRO) (for air 
consignments), 
(ii) Invoice, 
(iii) Packing list, 
(iv) Copy of supply order/ contract, 
(v) Technical write-up and descriptive catalogue/literature, 
(vi) CDEC  if applicable, and 
(vii) Any other relevant documents. 
b) On the arrival of cargo or based on the manifest filed by the carrier, the bill of 
entry is made by the clearing agency and submitted to the appraiser who will, in 
turn assess the Customs Duty, if leviable, or exempt the consignment from duty. 
To avail custom duty exemption, it is essential to ensure that the nomenclature/ 
description of stores and cost tally with that in invoice to obviate any doubt as 
discrepancy may lead to imposition of customs duty.  
11.15 DEMURRAGE/ WAREHOUSE CHARGES: 
In respect of Demurrage/ Warehouse charges, payment will be made first by Lab/ Estt./ 
Embarkation HQ to the concerned appropriate authority without taking concurrence/ 
approval of financial advisor/ CFA. The payment will be regularized by sending the 
case to the appropriate Financial Advisor/ CFA on a monthly basis for obtaining ex-
post-facto concurrence/ approval. 
11.16 REFUND CLAIMS: 
If customs duty is paid for any consignment which is otherwise eligible for duty-free 
import, the refund claims will be filed with custom authority immediately. All relevant 
and supporting documents will be enclosed along with the claim for submission to Asst. 
Commissioner of Customs (Refunds) for claiming refunds. 
11.16.1 Appeals : Refund claims are filed with the Asst. Commissioner of Customs (Refunds) 148 
 with necessary documents. At times claims are rejected for reasons like: 
a) Relevant documents not produced by the consignee, 
b) Discrepancies exist in the documents produced, 
c) Customs Notification under which exemption is claimed is not mentioned or 
mentioned inaccurately, and 
d) Delay in filing refund claim, etc. 
Adequate care should be taken to ensure that customs refund appeals are not rejected 
due to procedural lapses. 
11.16.2 Appeal to Higher Authorities : If the appeal for claim has been rejected by Astt. 
Commissioner of Customs (Refunds), Lab/Estt will file the appeal with the 
Commissioner of Customs (Appeals) within mandatory period as decided by Customs 
to avoid rejection. If this appeal is also rejected, and Lab/Estt considers the refund 
claim should be processed further, an appeal can be filed with Customs Excise & 
Service Tax Appellate Tribunal (CESTAT), New Delhi within stipulated time, on 
payment of prescribed fees. Generally, the decisions of CESTAT are final and binding. 
The appeals can, however, be taken up further with higher authorities in accordance 
with procedures described in Customs Manual (http://www.cbec.gov.in). 
11.16.3 Labs/Estts will maintain a register for 'Refund Claims for Customs Duty' which will be 
updated with the latest progress of each case. Director and Head, MMG of the Lab/Estt 
will periodically inspect this register. 
11.16.4 Pay-back Demand Notice : All refund claims, which have been passed and refund 
issued, undergo scrutiny of Central Revenue Audit. If any discrepancy in the claim is 
found during such audit scrutiny, Custom authorities issue Pay Back Notice to the 
importer for returning the amount refunded forthwith, along with the reasons for making 
such untenable refund claims. In such cases, Lab/Estt will react promptly to sort out 
problems. Inept handling of such cases will complicate the situation and may invite 
adverse criticism from the higher authorities. 
11.17 LOSS/ DAMAGE/ SHORT-LANDING: 
Defence consignments are not normally opened by the Customs. If loss/damages are 
suspected, a survey can, however, be conducted at the behest of the consignee/ 
clearing agent in order to ascertain the loss/damage through a Survey Board duly 
constituted by Director. Survey Board will have members from Lab/Estt, clearing agent, 