173 
 15 CHAPTER 15  
RATE CONTRACT/ PRICE AGREEMENT 
15.1 OBJECTIVE: 
The basic objective of a procuring entity is to provide store of right quality, in right 
quantity, at the right place, at the right time and right price to meet the requirement of 
the user. One of the ways of ensuring this is to conclude a “Standing Offer Agreement 
(SOA)” for all common use items which are regularly required and whose prices a re 
likely to be stable and not subject to considerable market fluctuations. It requires Buyer 
to enter into an agreement with appropriate firms/ manufacturer to supply their product 
against requirement at a fixed price and as per the terms & condition of the agreement. 
Rate Contract (RC) and Price Agreement (PA) are types of SOA. These agreements 
enable procuring entity to procure indented items promptly and with economy by 
cutting down the order processing and inventory carrying costs.  
15.2 RATE CONTRACT (RC)/ PRICE AGREEMENT (PA): 
RC: It is a contract between the Buyer and the Seller wherein the Seller agrees to 
provide, on demand, specified goods or services under specified terms & condition 
during a set period at a definite price.  
PA: It is a contract between the Buyer and the Seller wherein the Seller agrees to 
provide, on demand, specified goods or services under specified terms & condition 
during a set period at a definite discount structure.  
15.3 SALIENT FEATURES OF RC/PA:  
a) Neither quantity is mentioned nor any minimum drawal guaranteed in the contract.  
b) It is in the nature of a standing offer from the firm.  
c) Seller is bound to accept any order placed on him during the validity of the RC 
period.  
15.4 TYPES OF ITEMS SUITABLE FOR ENTERING INTO RC/PA: 
Following types of common use items may be considered for entering into RC/PA: 
a) Items required by several users on recurring basis and having clear specifications. 
b) Fast moving items with short shelf life or storage constraints.  
c) Items with minimum anticipated price fluctuation during the currency of the contract. 
Items with high probability of considerable price fluctuation should not be considered 174 
 to be covered except for short term contract.   
d) Items that take long gestation period to manufacture and for which there is only one 
source for manufacturing. 
15.5 ADVANTAGES OF RC: 
15.5.1 To Buyers :         
a) Facility of bulk rate at lowest competitive price.    
b) Saves time and effort in tedious and frequent bidding at multiple user locations. 
c) Enables buying as and when required. 
d) Just in time availability of supplies reduces inventory carrying cost. 
15.5.2 To Sellers:         
a) Access to large volume of purchase without going through bidding process and 
follow up at multiple user locations – saving in administrative and marketing 
efforts and overheads. 
b) Rate contract lends respectability and image enhancement. 
15.6 GUIDELINES FOR ENTERING INTO RC: 
Stores of standard types required in bulk quantity which are common and in regular 
demand, and for which the price is not subject to appreciable market fluctuations, shall 
be purchased against Rate Contract/ Price Agreement (RC/PA) based on assessed 
future consumption. 
15.6.1 Rate contract/ Price Agreement (RC/PA) will normally be entered into, if the annual 
drawals against the contracts are expected to exceed Rs.10 lakh. 
15.6.2 Normally the duration of a Rate Contract/ Price Agreement should be for a period not 
exceeding three years.  
15.6.3 No new RC/PA should be placed with the firms having backlog against existing 
contracts and also if the backlog is likely to continue for the major portion of the new 
contract period. 
15.6.4 RC/PA should be placed only on registered and/or reputed and established firms, which 
are capable of supplying the stores as required. 
15.6.5 In cases where a firm already has a RC/PA with any other Government Department, 
Central/ State Public Undertaking, etc., it should be ensured that the contract is entered 