183 
 on CRV/ IR should exactly correspond to those shown in the supply order/ 
contract and the contractor's bill. Rates and total value of all items should be 
shown in the CRV/ IR.   
i) Receipted copy of the delivery challan is enclosed with the bill. 
j) In case of advance payments, Bank Guarantee/ Indemnity Bond or equivalent 
bond is enclosed.  
k) The arithmetical accuracy of the bills will be thoroughly checked before payment. 
l) Deductions will be made from the bills on account of demurrage/ wharfage paid 
by Lab/Estt on consignments due to late receipt of RR/ LR (Railway Receipt/ 
Lorry Receipt). 
m) Income tax will be deducted as applicable. 
16.3.1 Time Schedule for Clearance of Bills : Expeditious processing of bills, after 
acceptance of stores, is essential to ensure the payment to the Seller within the 
prescribed time limit to avoid legal implication leading to payment of penal interest on 
delayed payments. For this purpose, Labs/Estts will issue local orders fixing time 
schedules for completion of inspection, accounting and submission of bills for release 
of payment to the paying authority. 
16.3.2 The bills for accepted stores along with documents as prescribed in para 16.2.2 of this 
Manual will be forwarded by Lab/Estt (MMG) to Finance Section handling cash 
assignment or local CDA (R&D)/ paying authority for payment. On the receipt of the 
cheque slip/ intimation from the paying authority, ECS payment details or the cheque 
number, date and amount will be entered in the bill register and cheque slip inserted in 
the purchase file. 
16.3.3 Balance Payment : In case of payments made from cash assignment, necessary 
entries in this regard will be made in the progress register. All payments (up to 90% or 
95%) shall be entered in the progress register. The bills for the balance (10% or 5%) 
payments to the Seller shall be submitted with supporting documents as applicable to 
local CDA (R&D)/ paying authority for settlement.  
16.3.4 Adjustment of Advances : All advances given to the Seller will be adjusted against the 
intermediate milestone payments or in any case against the final stage payment due to 
the Seller within six months from the date of receipt of stores/ completion of milestone/ 
service.   