149 
 carriers and insurance company. The board will submit its report within 30 days to the 
Lab/Estt and clearing agent. Notice of liability for the loss/damage will be sent to the 
Seller/carrier as the case may be, within 14 days of the completion of survey and claim 
for the loss/damage/short-landing will be lodged within 120 days from the date o f 
Airway Bill/ Bill of Lading. 
11.18 INLAND TRANSPORTATIO N: 
For air consignments through ACA contract, the consolidation agent will arrange 
transportation to the Labs/Estts on prescribed rates as per the prevailing contract. In 
case of sea consignments, Lab/Estt may approach Embarkation HQ to arrange for 
transportation by rail/road and pay transport charges. Else Lab/Estt will depute a 
representative for collection of stores directly from airport/ Embarkation HQ/ port. 
11.18.1 It is important that Lab/Estt must obtain Handling Instructions from the Seller, especially 
for the heavy/ delicate/ fragile consignments, and ensure its availability to the 
Consolidator/ Inland Transporter to ensure safe transportation/ loading –unloading. 
11.19 ACCEPTANCE/ ACCOUNTING OF IMPORTED STORES: 
The procedure for inspection and acceptance of imported stores will be as per the 
terms of the supply order/ contract.    
11.20 DOCUMENTS USED IN IMPORT: 
Brief description of commonly used documents in import are given below for clear 
understanding: 
11.20.1 Bill of Lading/ Airway Bill : These documents are evidence of the fact that the goods 
have been dispatched by the exporter by sea/air and authorises  the consignee/ 
importer to claim the goods on arrival in India. 
11.20.2 Invoice:  The commercial invoice describes the merchandise, indicates the price, 
identifies the Buyer and the Seller, vessel/name of the carrier, port of discharge, export 
and import permit numbers, etc. 
11.20.3 Certificate of Origin : This is required by the Customs authorities for clearance and for 
assessment of duty, as duties on imports are country specific. 
11.20.4 Weight Certificate:  This certificate helps in organizing logistic arrangements for the 
carriers and freight forwarders and transporters. 
11.20.5 Insurance Policy : It is a contract between the insurer and the insured. The insured 
pays a premium and the insurer agrees to indemnify against loss/ damage and other 
perils of sea/ air carriage. 150 
 11.20.6 Packing List : Packing list indicates the exact nature, quantity and quality of contents 
together with address, dimensions, weight, etc. of each package in a shipment and 
helps in clearance through Customs.  
11.21 EXPORT OF ITEMS NOT REPAIRABLE IN INDIA: 
Occasions may arise when imported equipment/ defective parts needs to be sent to 
OEM/ authorized agency for repairs/ replacement. Following documents would be 
required for booking the store for export: 
a) Export proforma, 
b) Requisition for carriage, 
c) Packing note-cum-invoice, 
d) Airworthy certificate, 
e) Airlift sanction, 
f) Firm‟s letter of acceptance,  
g) A copy of expenditure sanction accorded by CFA 
h) „Not Repairable in India‟ certificate by the Director of Lab/Estt,  
i) Initial import details like Bill of Entry, Bill of Lading/ AWB, etc., and 
j) Appropriate safeguards to protect the Govt. property in the form of BG/ Insurance 
cover. 
11.22 SPECIAL PROVISIONS FOR EQUIPMENT IMPORTED FOR DEMONSTRATION/ 
TRIAL/ TRAINING: 
Special items imported by DRDO Labs/Estts for the purpose of trial or demonstration of 
defence equipment are exempted from payment of customs duty under S No. 8 of 
Customs Notification No. 39/96 (Goods imported for trial, demonstration or training 
before an authority under the Ministry of Defence in the Government of India) as 
amended. A certificate from the Under Secretary to the Government of India in the 
Ministry of Defence is to be produced to the Assistant/ Deputy Commissioner of 
Customs, in each case that the goods imported are for the purpose of trial, 
demonstration or training. T he Lab/Estt will undertake, in each case, to pay the duty 
leviable on such goods (except those which are certified by the said Under Secretary 
as having been consumed in the process of trial, demonstration or training) which are 
not re-exported within a period of two years from the date of import or within such 
extended period that the said Assistant/ Deputy Commissioner may allow. 