5 
 1 Basic Cost  
 For indigenous contracts:  Cost of 
procurement excluding all applicable t axes 
& duties on the final product.  
For import contracts:  CIF/CIP 
(Destination port) cost, as applicable.  
2 Bid An offer made in pursuance of an 
invitation by a procuring entity, e.g., 
proposal or quotation.  
3 Bid Security/ Earnest 
Money Deposit (EMD)  Security provided to the procuring entity 
by bidders for securing the fulfillment of 
any obligation in terms of the provisions of 
the bidding documents.  
4 Bidder  
 Any person, including a consortium (that is 
association of several persons, or firms or 
companies), participating in the 
procurement process.  
5 Bidding Document  
 Document issued by the Buyer, including 
any amendment thereto, that sets out the 
terms and conditions of the given 
procurement and includes the invitation to 
bid. 
6 Build -Up  Cove rs procurements to support the R&D 
activities of the Lab/Estt and maintenance 
of infrastructure.  
7 Buyer  
 The President of India acting through the 
authority issuing the supply orders or 
signing the Contracts/ Memorandum of 
Understanding/ Agreements is the Buyer 
in all cases of procurement on behalf of 
the Government of India.  
8 Central Purchase 
Organisation   An organisation which is authorised by the 
Central Government by an order, made on 6 
  this behalf, to make procurement for one 
or more procuring entities or to enter into 
rate contracts or framework agreements 
for procurement by other Ministries/ 
Department of Govt. of India.  
9 Competent  Financial  
Authority (CFA)  
 An authority duly empowered by the 
Government of India to sanction and 
approve expenditure from public accounts 
up to a specified limit in terms of amount 
of such expenditure and subj ect to 
availability of funds. Where financial 
powers have been delegated to more than 
one authority under the same Serial/Head, 
authority with higher delegated financial 
powers will constitute the „higher CFA‟.  
10 Contract  
 An agreement, if made with fre e consent 
of parties competent to contract, for a 
lawful consideration and with a lawful 
object, is a contract.  
11 e-Procurement   It means the use of information and 
communication technology (specially the 
internet) by the Procuring Entity in 
conducting its procurement processes with 
bidders for the acquisition of goods 
(supplies), works and services aimed at an  
open, non -discriminat ory and efficient 
procurement through transparent 
procedures.  
12 Electronic Reverse 
Auction  Electronic Reverse Auction means an 
online real -time purchasing technique 
utilised by the Procuring Entity to select 
the successful bid, which involves 
presentatio n by bidders of successively 
more favourable bids during a scheduled 
period of time and automatic evaluation of 