95 
 concessional GST payment under Notification No. 47/2017-Integrated Tax 
(Rate) dtd 14 Nov 2017 & Notification No. 45/2017-Central Tax (Rate) dtd 14 
Nov 2017 as amended as per the description of stores and conditions 
thereon.  
 The successful bidder would be issued Concessional GST Certificate, if 
applicable, by the Buyer under the said notification as decided during tender 
negotiation and to be issued to Firm/Vendor before raising the invoice for 
procurement of goods against the Contract.  
 Bidders may note that Concessional GST Certificate would be issued ONLY in 
favour of beneficiary of the Contract. 
 Unless otherwise specifically agreed to in terms of the Contract, the Buyer shall 
not be liable for any claim on account of fresh imposition and/or increase of GST 
on raw materials and/or components used directly in the manufacture of the 
contracted stores taking place during the pendency of the contract. 
(iv) Octroi Duty & Local Taxes: 
 Normally, materials to be supplied to Government Departments against 
Government Contracts are exempted from levy of Town Duty, Octroi Duty, 
Terminal Tax and other levies of local bodies. The local Town/Municipal 
Body regulations at times, however, provide for such exemption only on 
production of such exemption certificate from any authorised officer. Seller 
should ensure that stores ordered against contracts placed by this office are 
exempted from levy of Town Duty/ Octroi Duty, Terminal Tax or other local 
taxes and duties. Wherever required, they should obtain the exemption 
certificate from the Buyer, to avoid payment of such local taxes or duties.  
 In case where the Municipality or other local body insists upon payment of 
these duties or taxes, the same should be paid by the Seller to avoid delay in 
supplies and possible demurrage charges. After the issue of exemption 
certificate by the Buyer, the Seller may get the reimbursement from the local 
authority.  
7.2.17 Denial Clause : Denial clause informs Seller that the Buyer reserves the right to admit 
additional payment due to upward revision of statutory levies beyond the original 
delivery schedule in case Seller fails to deliver the goods as per schedule. The 
standard text of this clause is as under: 96 
 “Variations in the rates of statutory levies within the original delivery schedu le will be 
allowed if taxes are explicitly mentioned in the contract/ supply order and delivery has 
not been made till the revision of the statutory levies. Buyer reserves the right not to 
reimburse the enhancement of cost due to increase in statutory levies beyond the 
original delivery period of the supply order/ contract even if such extension is granted 
without imposition of LD.”  
7.2.18 Pre-Contract Integrity Pact Clause : Integrity pact is a specific tool used to build 
transparency in public procurement by both public institutions and private agencies. 
The goal of the integrity pact is to eliminate chances of corrupt practices during 
procurement process through a binding agreement between the parties for specific 
contract. The standard text of this clause is as under: 
“An “Integrity Pact” would be signed between the Ministry of Defence/  Buyer and the 
Bidder and the Bidder shall be asked to deposit Rs. ___ crore as Earnest Money 
Deposit (EMD), in favour of The Director (Lab Name), (Place), in the form of 
appropriate Bank Guarantee (from a first class bank of international repute confirmed 
by the State Bank of India in case of foreign Seller). This EMD would be submitted by 
the Bidder along with Integrity Pact (IP) (as per format at Annexure ‘B’) at the time of 
submission of bid in a separate envelope clearly marked as „IP and EMD‟ put together 
in an envelope containing the bid. This is a binding agreement between the Buyer and 
the Bidders for specific contracts in which the Buyer promises not to accept bribes 
during the procurement process and Bidders promise that they will not offer bribes. 
Under this Pact, the Bidders for specific services or contracts agree with the Buyer to 
carry out the procurement in a specified manner. The essential elements of the Pact 
are as follows: 
a) A pact (contract) between the Government of India (Ministry of Defence) (the 
authority or the “ Principal ”) and firms submitting a bid for this specific activity (the 
“Bidder”);   
b) An undertaking by the Principal that its officials will not demand or accept any 
bribes, gifts etc., with appropriate disciplinary or criminal proceedings in case of 
violation;  
c) A statement by each Bidder that they have not paid, and will not pay, any bribes;  
d) An undertaking by each Bidder to disclose all payments made in connection with 
the Contract in question to anybody (including agents and other middlemen as 
well as family members, etc., of officials); the disclosure would be made either at 
the time of submission of Bids or upon demand of the Principal, especially when 