163 
 Association of the development partner will be desirable for effective rectification of 
design defects, if any, during trials of systems/ sub-systems, being developed as part 
of the contract. In all such cases, the development partner and his employees, 
connected with the assigned task, will be subject to the provisions contained in the 
Indian Official Secrets Act and required to render certificate to that effect.  
12.24 APPROVAL OF MILESTONES/ ACTIVITIES: 
Contract having more than one process/ stage may require inspection/ approval of 
completion of each process/ stage. The contract should clearly address this issue.  
12.24.1 It is recommended to specify that the development partner shall give notice in writing to 
the Lab/Estt for such inspections at least 10 days in advance. In the absence of such 
notice by the development partner, the development partner shall be held responsible 
for delay and in the event of any dispute in this respect; the decision of the Director 
shall be final and binding. 
12.25 AMENDMENTS TO CONTRACT TERMS AND CONDITIONS:  
Any amendment in the contract would be done as per the provision contained in 
Chapter 10 of this Manual. 
12.26 REPEAT ORDER: 
Placement of Repeat Order, if specified in the contract, would be governed as per 
provisions of para 10. 11 of this Manual after offsetting the NRE cost. 
12.27 PROCUREMENT OF DEVELOPED STORE FROM AGENCIES ASSOCIATED WITH 
DEVELOPMENT: 
Any item developed/ manufactured by Indian industry, public or private, with transfer of 
technology from DRDO or through development contract, shall be procured from the 
industry (ies) concerned only. The same industry(ies) shall also be approached for repairs, 
overhauling or any other service for which facility has been set up by the industry (ies) 
exclusively for development/production of the said item. Such cases would not be treated 
as single tender procurement. 
  164 
 13 CHAPTER 13  
PROCUREMENT OF TECHNICAL BOOKS AND JOURNALS 
13.1 GENERAL: 
The major objective of DRDO Libraries/ Technical Information (Resource) Centres/ 
Knowledge Centres (KCs) is to provide relevant, required and current information at 
the right time to the scientists working on various projects in the DRDO Labs/Estts.   
These are not academic or general libraries but are special libraries and deal with 
publications in special and focused subject areas. Books, technical reports, standards, 
patents related information, databases, scientific journals and periodicals in print and 
digital form are some of the important types of documents required by DRDO libraries. 
Sometimes, journal articles, audio-visual, optical, multimedia and e-learning material 
as well as ephemeral material may also be required for procurement.  
13.2 DEMAND INITIATION: 
The demand for the technical books and journals would be raised by the Library in-
charge of the Lab/Estt on the basis of requirements projected by the users of technical 
library. Library in-charge may also raise demand for the periodicals and journals to 
complete/ continue the collection in the Library. 
13.3 LIBRARY ADVISORY COMMITTEE (LAC):  
Director of the Lab/Estt may appoint a Library Advisory Committee consisting of 
Chairman of the rank of Scientist 'E' or above, three to five members representing 
various subject disciplines of the Lab/Estt and the Library In-Charge (Officer- In-
Charge) who will also be the Member Secretary. The LAC is an essential body 
advising and guiding the library in its activities and services. The LAC also advises the 
Director of the Lab/Estt on the policy matters pertaining to administration of library. 
13.3.1 Functions of LAC : 
The basic functions of the LAC are as under: 
a) To lay down the general library policy and rules,  
b) To scrutinize the demands for procurement of print and digital documents and 
make necessary recommendations for approval of the CFA for balanced growth 
of library resources, 
c) To lay down and review the procedures for the library to optimize efficiency and 
usage of the library services, 