7 
 bids.  
13 Financial Power  Financial power is the power to approve 
expenditure to be incurred for bonafide 
purposes in accordance with the laid down 
procedure and subject to availability of 
funds.  
14 Free Issue Material 
(FIM)  Stores supplied by the Buyer without 
charges to the Se ller as per the terms of 
contract in order that it be incorporated 
into for the completion of subject activity.  
15 Goods/Stores/Services   
 The term 'goods/stores/services' used in 
this Manual includes all item mentioned in 
para 1.3 of this Manual such as all articles, 
material, livestock, spares, instruments, 
plant & machinery, equipment, etc. and all 
types of services/ outsourcing of service s, 
job contracts including packing, 
unpacking, preservation, transportation, 
insurance, delivery, printing and other 
services, leasing, technical assessment, 
consultancy, systems study, software 
development, etc. but excluding  books, 
publications, periodic als etc. for a library.  
16 Indent   
 An indent is a requisition placed by the 
User on MMG of the Lab/Estt to procure 
an item.  
17 Inspecting Agency  The agency authorized by the Inspecting 
Authority to carry out the inspection.  
18 Invitation to Bid   
 Means a document and any amendment 
thereto published by the Buyer inviting 
bids relating to the subject matter of 
procurement which includes Notice 
Inviting Bid (NIB) and Request For 8 
 Proposal (RFP).  
19 Leasing   A Lease is an agreement whereby the 
Lessor conveys to the Lessee in written 
for a payment or series of payments the 
right to use an asset for an agreed period 
of time.  
20 Notification  Means a notification published in the 
Official Gazette.  
21 Original Equipment 
Manufacturer  The Original Equipment Manufacturer 
(OEM) is the firm manufacturing the item/ 
equipment under procurement.  
22 Parties  Buyer and Seller whenever referred 
collectively are termed as Parties.  
23 Paying Authority  In respect of procurements made under 
this Manual, Paying Authority means any 
of the following authorities:  
(i) Offices of the Principal Controller of 
Defence Accounts (R&D)/ Controller 
of Defence Accounts (R&D) under 
the Controller General of Defence 
Accounts.  
(ii) A sub -office  of the Principal 
Controller of Defence Accounts 
(R&D)/ Controller of Defence 
Accounts (R&D).  
(iii) An authority holding cash 
assignment/ imprest and duly 
authorized to make payment for 
procurement.  
24 Pre-Qualification 
Document  
 Means the document including a ny 
amendment thereto issued by the Buyer, 
which set out the terms and conditions of 
the pre -qualification proceedings and 