165 
 d) To deal with any other matter concerning the library that may arise from time to 
time. 
13.3.2 The LAC will be advisory in nature and not to perform any administrative functions. The 
decisions taken by the LAC will be subject to the approval of the Director of the 
Lab/Estt. 
13.4 PROCUREMENT OF BOOKS/ PUBLICATIONS OTHER THAN PERIODICALS:  
Bidding process will not be mandatory for procurement of books/ publications other 
than periodicals. The procurement procedure involves selection of books/ publications, 
placement of order, receiving, accessioning, bill processing etc. are governed as per 
the procedures outlined in “Procedures for Management of Libraries and Technical 
Information Centre” issued by DESIDOC.  These functions are almost common for 
acquisitions of all kinds of library books/ publications except periodicals and scientific 
journals. 
13.4.1 In view of high costs, no library can afford to purchase all the information, materials, 
documents needed or demanded by its readers even if they are relevant to the 
establishment. Library should procure documents by following the golden rule "the most 
relevant documents covering core and major subject interests of the establishment, for 
the largest number of users and at the least cost" within the resources available. 
Therefore, selection and procurement are important functions of a library for balanced 
resources for current and potential use. 
13.5 PROCUREMENT OF PERIODICAL PUBLICATIONS: 
Acquisition of periodical publications is different because generally advance payment is 
mandatory for subscription and renewal of periodicals. Either of the following methods 
of procurement may be followed for procurement of periodicals. 
a) Bidding process 
b) Direct ordering 
LAC may scrutinize the procurement proposals of periodicals and recommend 
procurement through bidding or direct order placement to CFA on case to case basis. 
In the absence of specific recommendations, bidding process must be followed for 
procurement of periodicals. Direct ordering should be recommended only in 
exceptional cases where bidding process is not practical. 
13.6 GUIDELINES FOR PROCUREMENT FOR BOOKS/ JOURNALS: 
DRDO  has libraries/ Technical Information Centers/ Knowledge Centers functioning in 166 
 its Labs/Estt. Keeping in view the special needs of these libraries, library procedure 
manual titled “Procedures for Management of Libraries & Technical Information 
Centers” , as amended, issued by Defence Scientific Documentation and Information 
Centre (DESIDOC) after requisite approval of Secretary Defence (R&D) with the 
concurrence of Addl. FA (R&D) & JS will be applicable. This manual provides detailed 
guidelines for procurement of books, technical reports, standards, patents related 
information, databases, scientific journals and periodicals in print and digital form, 
journal articles, audio-visual/ optical/ multimedia and e-learning material. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  