17 
 3 CHAPTER 3  
VENDOR MANAGEMENT - REGISTRATION AND EVALUATION  
3.1 GENERAL: 
a) The objective behind identification of proper sources of supply, registration of firms 
and their periodic evaluation is to obviate the necessity of de novo search of a 
Seller for each demand. An exhaustive directory of reliable firms dealing with 
different categories of stores is an essential pre-requisite for prompt initiation of 
purchase action. Such approved firms will be known as registered firms/ vendors.  
b) Selection and registration of firms, their performance appraisal and classification 
must be clearly spelt out in unambiguous terms. Providing equal opportunity and 
ensuring fair competition are also important requirements to achieve transparency. 
For this purpose, the Lab/Estt may invite offers from prospective Sellers for 
registration by giving wide publicity. Such registration will be done in accordance 
with the criteria and qualifications prescribed in the registration notification.  
c) Lab/Estt may register a firm on their own initiative without going in for registration 
process by recording the reasons for the same and with the explicit approval of 
Director / Head of the Lab/ Estt. 
d) The electronic directory/ data base of registered firms on DRONA will be 
continually updated by exploring new firms and by sharing of such information 
among Labs/Estts with emphasis on reliable sources of supply. 
3.2 SOURCE SELECTION:  
The selection of firms, with potential to successfully execute supplies against orders 
placed by the Buyer, will be done on the basis of information obtained through the 
following sources: 
a) User divisions and written suggestions from scientists. 
b) Referred by consultants/ subject experts. 
c) Central purchase organizations of Government of India,  
d) Industrial directories/ trade journals. 
e) Advertisement through electronic media  
f) Inter-Service organizations/ Government/ Scientific or Research Institutions/ other 
DRDO Labs/Estts, etc. 18 
 g) Technical literature circulated by firms. 
h) Responses received against „Open Bidding ‟. 
i) Response to Expression of Interest (EOI). 
3.3 REGISTRATION OF INDIGENOUS FIRMS:  
Registration of indigenous firms would be done for specific items/ class of items under 
following categories: 
3.3.1 Manufacturers/ Distributors : The registration will be awarded to the firms who are 
manufacturers or authorized stockists/ distributors/ dealers of Commercially-Off-The-
Shelf (COTS) Items. 
3.3.2 Service Providers:  Firms which are providing professional services for the outsourced 
jobs and maintenance services such as AMC of computers, air conditioners and other 
utility services to the Lab/Estt would be registered as Service Providers. 
3.3.3 Fabrication/ Production (P) Agency : The firms having only production facilities for 
converting designs into hardware or end stores or those capable of specified process 
such as fabrication, casting, machining etc. will be included in this category. These 
firms do not have any contribution of intellectual property. 
3.3.4 Development and Production (DP) Agency : The firms having capability for 
development/ up-gradation and manufacturing would be categorized as DP. Such firms 
do not have infrastructure for design, i.e., conversion of a concept into an engineering 
design. 
3.3.5 Design, Development and Production (DDP) Agency : The firms having design 
capability and infrastructure for research & development apart from manufacturing 
capability covering all requirements of a quality system would be categorized as DDP. 
3.3.6 Others : Firms not falling in any of above categories may be registered under this 
heading .  
3.4 PROCEDURE FOR REGISTRATION OF INDIGENOUS FIRMS:  
3.4.1 Registration process may be initiated by responding to firm‟s advertisements or through 
trade fairs and exhibitions or through market surveys or by issuing a notification on 
DRDO website and CPP Portal. Invitation for registration of vendors will be made in a 
three year cycle. 
3.4.2 ToT holders of DRDO Technology : ToT holders of DRDO technology would be 