49 
 6 CHAPTER 6  
BIDDING PROCESS 
6.1 GENERAL: 
Goods/ services should be procured by adopting one of the modes of bidding given in 
this chapter except for the cases which are already covered under Chapter 5 of this 
Manual. 
6.1.1 Restrictions on Global Tender Enquiry (GTE) costing up to Rs 200 crore : 
No Global Tender Enquiry (GTE), as defined under  Rule 161 (iv) (a) of GFR-2017, shall 
be invited for tenders upto Rs 200 crores or such limit as may be prescribed by the 
Department of Expenditure from time to time. For tenders below such limit, in exceptional 
cases, where the procuring entity feels that there are special reasons for GTE, it may 
submit its detailed justifications to DRDO Hqrs. Subsequently, DRDO Hqrs would seek 
prior approval for relaxation to the above rule from the Secretary (coordination), Cabinet 
Secretariat or from any other Competent Authority specified by the Department of 
Expenditure. 
6.1.2 Participation of bidders whose country shares land border with India : 
Participation of any bidder from a country which shares a land border with India will be 
governed as per Rule 144(xi) of GFR- 2017 and subsequent orders issued by the 
Department of Expenditure in this regard. 
6.2 SINGLE/ TWO BID SYSTEM:  
6.2.1 Single Bid System : For Commercial-Off- The-Shelf (COTS) general use items where 
specifications are well established and technical clarifications are not required, single 
bid system may be opted. In this system, techno-commercial and price bids are invited 
in a single envelope. No sample should be called for in single bid system at the RFP 
stage. 
6.2.2 Two Bid System : For high value plant and machinery, technically complex equipment 
and turnkey projects which need a thorough technical evaluation, two bid system may 
be followed. In this system, the bids are invited in two envelopes sealed in single cover, 
as techno-commercial bid and price bid respectively, as follows: 
a) Techno-commercial bid consisting of all technical details along with commercial 
terms & conditions; and  
b) The price bid indicating prices of items mentioned in techno-commercial bid and 50 
 cost break up as indicated in the RFP .  
6.2.3 In a two bid system, only techno-commercial bid is opened at the time of opening of 
bids. Price bids are opened only for those bidders who qualify the technical scrutiny as 
per the RFP. 
6.3 MODES OF BIDDING: 
Generally the following modes of bidding will be followed for obtaining bids: 
a) Open Bidding Mode (OBM) 
b) Limited Bidding Mode (LBM) 
c) Single Bidding Mode (SBM) 
d) Proprietary Bidding Mode (PBM) 
6.4 OPEN BIDDING MODE (OBM): 
Open Bidding Mode (OBM) should be the preferred mode for procurement of common 
use item, with generic/ commercial specifications, which are readily available off-the-
shelf in the market from a wide range of sources.  All procurements of goods and 
services where estimated cost is more than Rs. 25 lakh and Rs. 10 lakh respectively 
should generally be made through this mode subject to exceptions provided in this 
Chapter. However, OBM may also be resorted to in case of procurements where 
estimated cost is less than the values specifi ed above if considered advantageous. 
6.4.1 Open Bidding Mode involves wide publicity through advertising media to ensure 
extensive competition. RFP will necessarily be hosted on Central Public Procurement 
(CPP) Portal and DRDO website only. 
6.4.2 Simultaneously, attention of renowned prospective bidders may also be drawn to the 
RFP notification to enable them to offer the quotations after obtaining the RFP 
documents from the Lab/Estt concerned or website. 
6.4.3 In case a need is felt, Lab/Estt may also approach Foreign Embassies in India and 
Indian Embassies/ Defence Attaché abroad by sending them a copy of RFP notification 
with the list of prospective bidders to seek offers/ assistance through their liaison. 
6.4.4 In case the RFP is downloaded from the website by the bidder, it will not be charged. 
However, if the bidder wants it from the Lab/Estt, it will be supplied at rates tabulated 
below which include postal charges. RFP will be supplied free of cost to MSEs 
registered with National Small-Scale Industries Corporation (NSIC) and other such 
agencies as decided by the Govt. Lab/Estt will not be responsible for any postal delay.  