129 
 (i) Project Director would accord DP extension up to 12 months for all cases 
where CFA is up to the level of MoD and full powers for cases within their 
delegated financial powers .  
(ii) Programme Director/ Director Lab/Estt would accord DP extension up to 24 
months for all cases where CFA is up to the level of MoD and full powers for 
cases within their delegated financial powers . 
(iii) DG (Cluster) concerned would accord DP extension for all cases where CFA 
is up to the level of MoD irrespective of time lines.  
b) DP extension (including ex- post -facto) with waiver of full/ partial LD :  . The 
competent authority for according such approval for procurement cases covered 
under Appendix A and Appendix B of DFP is given below.  Concurrence of Finance 
would be obtained wherever the procurement case was originally sanctioned with 
concurrence of Finance. Where DP extension is for a procurement relating to a 
Project/Programme, extended DP would have to be limited to sanctioned 
Project/Programme completion date.  
(i) Project Director and Prog. Director would accord DP extension for all cases 
within their delegated financial powers irrespective of timelines.  
(ii) PJB/Director Lab/Estt would accord DP extension up to 12 months for all cases 
where CFA is up to the level of MoD and full powers for cases within their 
delegated financial powers irrespective of timelines.  
(iii) PMB/ DG (Cluster) concerned would accord DP extension up to 24 months for 
all cases where CFA is up to the level of MoD and full powers for cases within 
their delegated financial powers irrespective of timelines . 
(iv) Apex Board/ Secretary DD (R&D) to be empowered with full powers to accord DP 
extension irrespective of timelines . 
c) Revision of Supply Order / Expenditure Sanction on account of Statutory 
changes such as taxation structure / rates, minimum wages and FE rate 
variation : Project Director/ Programme Director/ Director (Lab/Estt) would accord 
the approval and issue amendment to the Expenditure Sanction and Supply 
Order/Contract ( irrespective of cost of the contract ) on account of any statutory 
changes such as taxes/ levies or revision in minimum wages as per labor laws or 
additional cash out go on account of FE rate variation. Such approval would 
require the concurrence of associated finance, if applicable. The responsibility of 
working out the revised amount and correctness thereof will rest with Head MMG 130 
 d) Change in item description/part number, part shipment/transshipment/lot 
size without affecting DP and terms of payment, delivery terms/consignee : 
The Competent Authority to accord such approvals would be as under:  
(i) In respect of Contracts for which CFA is up to level of DG Cluster : CFA‟s 
concerned with the concurrence of their associated Finance will accord the 
approvals . 
(ii)  In respect of Contracts for which CFA is MoD : Director General concerned 
with the concurren ce of their associated Financial Adviser will accord the 
approvals.  
10.5.3 Revision of Supply Order / Expenditure Sanction on account of ‘Growth of Work’ 
for Repair/Maintenance Contracts : Revision in cost on account of Growth of Work 
would be on pro-rata basis. Competent authority to accord the approval and issue 
amendment to the Expenditure Sanction and Supply Order/Contract ( irrespective of 
cost of the contract ) on account of growth of work would be as under, provided 
approval of „Growth of Work‟ was obtained from CFA at time of demand 
approval/expenditure sanction: 
a) Up to 15% of original contract value  –Project Dir/Programme Dir/Dir Lab/Estt. 
Financial concurrence would not be required in such cases. 
b) Beyond 15% of original contract value  – CFA on cumulative basis as per delegation 
of financial powers. Concurrence of associated finance would be obtained. 
10.5.4 Arising due to change in scope of work : The proposal with due justification for 
amending the SO/ Contract will be submitted on file to the CFA for approval. CFA may 
consider constituting a committee to consider changes in Scope of Work and resultant 
time & cost implications. Concurrence of financial advisor of CFA will be obtained as 
per the delegation of financial powers. For procurements where CFA is higher than the 
Secretary DD (R&D), Hon‟ble RM will approve the constitution of the said committee.  
10.5.5 Acceptance of Excess or Short Deliveries :  There may be occasions when excess or 
short supplies are made by the Sellers due to various reasons like, exact multiples of 
the standard units of measure, or where it is difficult to mention exact quantity (e.g. 
weight in the case of steel plates, raw materials, consumables etc.). Wherever such 
variation is anticipated, a provision should be made in the RFP for acceptance of the 
excess/ shortfall in supplies and a clause on it shall form a part of SO/ Contract. 
However, in the absence of such clauses in the SO/ Contract, the variations in supplies 
may be accepted with the approval of CFA subject to the value of such excess/short 