177 
 15.13.7 In case of emergency, the Buyer may purchase the rate contracted item through ad-hoc 
contract with a new Seller. 
15.13.8 Usually, the terms of delivery in RC/PA are FOR dispatching station. This is so, 
because such agreements are to take care of the users spread all over the country. 
However, wherever it is decided to enter into RC/PA which is FOR destination, the cost 
of transportation should be separately asked for. 
15.13.9 The Buyer and the authorized users of the RC/PA are entitled to place supply orders up 
to the last day of the validity of the agreement and, though supplies against such supply 
orders will be effected beyond the validity period of the agreement, all such supplies will 
be governed by the terms and conditions of the RC/PA. 
15.13.10 Supply orders, incorporating definite quantity of goods to be supplied as per the term s 
and conditions of agreement, will be issued for obtaining supplies on need basis. 
15.13.11 Fall Clause : All RC/ PA will be governed by “Fall Clause”. The following Fall Clause will 
invariably form part of the agreement: 
a) The prices charged for the stores supplied under the agreement by the Seller 
shall in no event exceed the lowest price at which the Seller sells the items of 
identical description to any other person/organization during the period till 
performance of all supply orders placed during the currency of the agreement is 
completed. 
b) If, at any time, during the said period, the Seller reduces the sale price of such 
stores or sells stores to any other person/organization at a price lower than the 
price chargeable under the agreement, he shall forthwith notify such reduction or 
sale to the authority which has concluded the RC/PA; and the price payable 
under the agreement for the stores supplied after the date of coming into force of 
such reduction or sale shall stand correspondingly reduced. 
c) However, the above stipulation will not apply to: 
(i) Export by the Contractor. 
(ii) Sale of stores as original equipment at prices lower than the prices 
charged for normal replacement. 
(iii) Sale of stores such as drugs, perishable goods which have expiry dates. 
15.13.12 Certificate in respect of Fall Clause :  