157 
 12.7 FABRICATION CONTRACT: 
Fabrication contract means a one-time contract concluded with a contractor or a firm 
for fabrication and supply of components, sub- assemblies or an assembly, which are 
not commercially available, against design drawings/ specifications to be supplied by 
the Lab/Estt.  
12.7.1 Fabrication contracts, which do not have elaborate system requirements, test 
procedures and activity monitoring, can be placed following the normal procedures for 
supply orders as given in the preceding chapters. Material Management Forms as 
applicable for supply orders may be used for fabrication contracts with suitable 
modification wherever required. Any other additional terms and conditions if applicable 
to the fabrication contract may be included wherever desired. 
12.8 CFA FOR VARIOUS CONTRACTS: 
Various types of contracts can be adopted depending upon the nature, complexity and 
time span of the developmental work/project. Firm-Fixed-Price contracts, Fixed Price 
Contracts with Price Variation Clause and Fabrication Contracts will be concluded by 
Lab/Estts as per the delegated financial powers vis-à-vis mode of bidding. Fixed-Price 
contracts providing for Re-determination of Price, Fixed Price Incentive contracts and 
Cost Plus contracts will be adopted only with the prior approval of Secretary Defence 
(R&D ) or higher authorities through DFMM. Concurrence of finance will be taken as 
per the delegation of financial powers.  
12.9 COSTING AND TIME ESTIMATION: 
Cost of developmental/ fabrication contracts will be estimated considering all elements 
of cost, both Non-Recurring Expenditure (NRE) and prototype costs, systematically as 
per costing and industrial engineering methods. These methods mainly rely on the 
information furnished to the cost accountants by the engineers/ scientists through their 
past experience of having performed similar (or same) task or by their precise 
estimation of various inputs required to complete the contract, based on the firmed up 
design drawing/data. The developmental contracts, which are being executed for the 
first time, may not be amenable to these cost accounting techniques, hence personal 
experience/ logical assessment/ experience of similar development by other Labs/Estts 
may be utilized for arriving at approximate cost & time estimate and in achieving 
optimum value for money when the contracts are concluded. Directors of Lab/Estt may 
hire services of professional engineering and costing consultants (if desired, whenever 
in-house costing is inadequate) for proper cost estimation in case of expected high 
value contracts. 
12.9.1 In case the developmental contract leads to production, it is expected that per unit 158 
 production cost should not be more than prototype cost (as per developmental contract) 
after offsetting inflation. Sometimes, it is seen that firms undercut/ offer discount to 
become L1 in the developmental phase and later jack up prices during the production 
phase. Care should be taken by the CFA on the merit of the case to safeguard Govt. 
interest. 
12.10 PROCESSING OF DEVELOPMENTAL CONTRACT: 
Some of the important steps involved in the processing of developmental contract are 
as follows: 
a) Firming up of vendor qualification criteria 
b) Framing and Issue of RFP 
c) Techno-commercial Evaluation of bids and convening of C NC 
d) Placement of Contract/ Supply Order 
e) Post Contract Management 
12.11 INITIATION & APPROVAL OF DEMANDS:  
Procedure for initiation and approval of demands for developmental/ fabrication 
contracts will be as per Chapter 4 of this Manual. There would be no requirement of 
“Performance Security” for the “Development Contracts” entered into by DRDO. This 
will apply to “Development Contracts” only, as defined in Para 12.5 above. However, 
Warranty Bond would continue to be obtained from successful development partner to 
cover the DRDO interest during the warranty period. 
12.12 FIRMING UP OF VENDOR QUALIFICATION CRITERIA: 
Identification of appropriate vendors is a vital step and must be well considered. 
Labs/Estts may use EOI route for firming up of vendor qualification criteria to find a 
suitable developmental partner(s) as per procedure mentioned hereunder. 
12.12.1 For identifying firms willing to participate as developmental partner in respect of 
different categories/ products/ components, notice inviting Expression of Interest (EOI) 
to be published on Central Public Procurement Portal (CPP-Portal) and DRDO Website 
only. A notice calling for EOI/RFI will be issued/ published with “in -principle” approval of 
CFA / DG Cluster (whichever authority is lower). The minimum number of products/ 
components required to be submitted by the vendor for evaluation and likely demand 
for those products/ components for the next two to three years after development may 
be indicated, if feasible, in th e EOI. The attention of known prospective development 
partner(s) will also be drawn towards EOI/RFI. 