51 
 Sl. No.  Mode of Access to RFP  Price ( Rs. ) 
1 If downloaded from website  Free of cost  
2 If supplied by Lab/Estt  Rs. 500  
 
6.4.5 OBM will also be followed for items where limited bidding, irrespective of its estimated 
value, has not resulted in creation of expected competition and getting the best offer. 
6.5 LIMITED BIDDING MODE (LBM): 
This mode of bidding may be chosen where estimated value of goods and services to 
be procured is up to Rs. 25 lakh and Rs. 10 lakh respectively . RFP will be floated to 
more than three firms registered for that category of goods/ services with the Lab/Estt . 
In case the number of firms registered with the Lab/Estt is less than four, the central 
database of registered vendors on DRONA would be referred for identification of other 
potential sources. In exceptional cases, CFA may consider issuance of RFP to lesser 
number of potential bidders after recording the reasons in file. The following aspects 
will be kept in mind while issuing RFP: 
6.5.1 Vendor selection for the purpose of LBM must be done with utmost diligence so as to 
give fair opportunity to the vendors who are registered with R&D Labs/Estts and the 
Government designated agencies as specified by Govt. of India/DRDO HQrs from time 
to time.  
6.5.2 Un-registered vendors may also be considered for the purpose of LBM with the explicit 
approval of CFA. However, their registration would be mandatory before placement of 
order on them .  
6.5.3 RFP documents are not transferable. 
6.5.4 Help of Foreign Embassies in India and Indian Embassies/ Defence Attaché abroad 
may be sought, if required, for the procurement of imported items.  
6.5.5 Special circumstances for LBM : Purchase through LBM may also be adopted even 
where the estimated value of the procurement is more than the specified values with 
the approval of CFA under the following circumstances: 
a) When the sources of supply are definitely known/ available (established through 
OBM/ EOI in last one year) and possibility of fresh sources beyond these is remote. 
b) When it is not in the public interest to call for open bidding due to reasons of 
security or when superior authorities have issued specific instructions in this 52 
 regard. 
c) When Government policies designate specific agencies. 
d) When the requirement of stores is urgent and reasons for such urgency are 
justified by the indenter. Urgency of such cases will be specifically monitored till the 
placement of order.  
6.5.6 Demand approval accorded by CFA would include the names of the vendors to whom 
the RFP will be sent. 
6.5.7 RFP will be issued to all vendors as approved by CFA. 
6.5.8 e-Publishing of RFP on LBM on the CPP Portal will be ensured unless approval of the 
Secretary Defence R&D has been obtained with the concurrence of Addl. FA (R&D) & 
JS. Unsolicited offers received as a result of e-publishing would not be considered for 
the instant procurement but the response would be given to the Vendor Registration 
Committee for consideration for future procurements. 
6.6 INADEQUATE RESPONSE IN OBM AND LBM: 
Quotations received (in single bid system) or technically qualified (in two bid system) 
from at least three firms are considered adequate to process the procurement. Receipt 
of less than three quotations (in single bid system) or technically qualified quotes (in 
two bid system) will be considered as inadequate response. Such cases would be 
dealt as per para 6.30 of this Manual. 
6.6.1 In cases where RFP on LBM was issued to only two potential bidders with the prior 
approval of CFA, quotations received (in single bid system) or technically qualified (in 
two bid system) from only one firm will be considered as inadequate response and 
would be dealt as per para 6.30 of this Manual. 
6.7 SINGLE BIDDING MODE ( SBM ):  
Procurement from a single source may be resorted to with the approval of CFA as per 
delegation of financial powers. In such cases, detailed justification as per format 
DRDO.DM.03  will be submitted for the approval of CFA. Procurement on SBM may be 
resorted to under the following circumstances: 
a) In case of emergency. 
b) On account of operational/ technical requirement. 
c) Non-proprietary items, when only single response is available, in spite of 
competitive bidding. 