15 
 a) Build- up:  Five years beyond completion of all contractual obligations. 
b) Project : Five years beyond closure of the Project or completion of all contractual 
obligations, whichever is later. 
2.7 R&D PROCUREMENT: 
2.7.1 Department of Defence R&D acts as designer, developer and integrator of various 
technologies from engineering and scientific knowledge base to realize products/ 
systems required by Armed Forces. 
2.7.2 Procurement for R&D includes purchase of non-commercial items and goods/ services 
that do not exist or require new features. To realize such requirements, it is imperative 
to embed sufficient flexibility in the procurement procedures like:  
a) Pre-Qualification of Bidders : To be able to screen the potential sources of 
supply by employing pre-qualification of bidders for the realization of high end 
technology equipment/ turnkey contracts requiring multi-disciplinary expertise.  
b) Cost estimation : Provision to continue with the procurement process even if the 
quoted cost is beyond the expected variation with respect to the estimated cost. 
c) Revision of specification to meet the objective : To be able to admit minor 
revision in the technical parameters/ specifications emerging during the technical 
evaluation of bids or clarification received from the bidders, which does not affect 
the basic functional requirement of the product. 
d) Commercial terms : To be able to admit broader commercial terms like 
involvement of Indian Agent in the procurement process where inescapable ; 
acceptance of recommendations of Techno-Commercial Evaluation Committee 
(TCEC) by the Director/nominated officer; Repeat Order for 50% of the original 
ordered quantity and flexible payment terms etc. 
e) Selection of service provider b ased on combination of “ Price” and “non -Price” 
attributes under certain conditions. 
2.7.3 Leasing of Systems/Equipment etc : The Lab/Estt may resort to temporary acquisition 
through leasing of equipment/ test facility/ platform when such equipment/ facility/ 
platform is required only for specific purpose beyond which it may not be useful and 
any other condition which may be suitable for leasing of the equipment with the 
approval of CFA. 
2.7.4 Since R&D is a continuous process involving iteration , it may not be desirable/ feasible 
to change design/ development/ production partners till completion of technical/ user 16 
 trials for supply of components/ sub-systems. Care should, therefore, be taken to follow 
a transparent selection mechanism for selection of such partners through wide publicity 
and after their capability/ capacity assessment. On the merits of the case, individual 
items/ components specifically developed/ fabricated during the process of R&D may 
be procured from development partners with the approval of CFA as per para 12.27. 
 
 
  