191 
 1.5.2 Documents required for Opening of LC : Lab/Estt will process the case for the item-wise 
release of FE before opening of LC in the contract. The following documents are required 
by issuing bank through paying authority for opening of LC: 
a) Forwarding letter 
b) Request letter for opening of LC, as per DRDO.LC.01 , with the condition that the 
Bank Release Order (BRO) will be issued by bank within 24 hrs. 
c) Form No. 2 - Application and guarantee, as per DRDO.LC.02 (contains the details of 
documentary evidences required) 
d) Declaration cum Undertaking (under section 10 (5), chapter III of the FEMA, 1999) 
e) Application for remittance in foreign currency (Form A-1/A-2 (Stores/ Services)), as 
per format DRDO.LC.03  and DRDO.LC.04   
f) Copy of Contract and amendments thereof 
Five sets of above documents will be prepared by the Lab/Estt. Three sets will be 
forwarded to the issuing bank, one set will be forwarded to the paying authority and one 
will be retained by the Lab/Estt in the procurement file. 
1.5.3 Opening of LC : subsequently, the Issuing Bank establishes the LC with a unique LC 
number allotted to each payment case and intimates the paying authority and the Lab/Estt. 
about the opening of LC. 
1.6 RELEASE OF PAYMENT AGAINST LC: 
1.6.1 Paid shipping documents are required to be provided to Advising Bank/ nominated 
Negotiating Bank by the Seller, as proof of dispatch of goods as per contractual terms, to 
get his payment against the LC. The Negotiating Bank forwards one set each of these 
documents to the Issuing Bank and the Landing Officer/ rep. of Consignee, as specified in 
the Contract, for getting the goods/ stores released from the Port/ Airport. The documents, 
the details of which should be specified in the contract, include:  
a) Full set of clean on board Air Way Bill (AWB)/ Bill of Lading (B/L) in original  
b) Original invoice in triplicate (ink-signed) 
c) Item-wise packing list  192 
 d) Certificate of country of origin of goods  
e) Certificate of quality and current manufacture from OEM  
f) Dangerous cargo certificate, if any.  
g) Insurance policy of 110% if CIF/CIP contract, wherever applicable.  
h) Certificate of conformity & acceptance test at PDI/FAT, signed by Buyer's and 
Seller's QA Dept., if provided in contract 
i) Phyto-sanitary/Fumigation certificate, if applicable 
j) Warranty certificate, if applicable  
k) Any other document as mentioned in LC 
1.7 AMENDMENT OF LC:  
Any amendment to LC requires consent of both the parties. Director of Lab/Estt. is 
authorised to accord approval for processing the case for amendment of LC. However, in 
case, where amendment to LC requires amendment to the contract, prior approval of 
amending the contract shall be obtained by the Lab/Estt. from Competent Authority/ CFA, 
as applicable. The process for amendment of LC would be initiated after ensuring the 
followings:  
a) Request from the Seller for amendment of LC 
b) Re-confirmation regarding continuing availability of funds for releasing payment.  
c) Commensurate extension, if any, of BG by the Seller.  
d) The onus of bearing charges for LC extension would be on the Seller or the Buyer 
depending upon the one who seeks/ is responsible for the extension. 
1.7.1 Documents required for Amendment of LC : All cases for LC amendment would be 
routed through the paying authority to the issuing bank along with the following documents:   
a) Forwarding letter 
b) Vendor’s request for LC amendment  
c) Amendment to contract indicating the required DP, LD applicability 