71 
 during TCEC. However, while procuring/ developing complex systems/ products, it may 
not be feasible to incorporate all possible details in technical specifications. During the 
techno-commercial evaluation process, in case any changes in original technical 
specifications are being made, all the participating bidders should be asked to indicate 
separately the financial impact from the original quote in terms of addition or deduction 
from the quoted price, either by amount or percentage in a sealed cover, instead of 
calling for fresh price bids. This is done to retain the sanctity of the original price bid 
and should be considered only as supplement. It is mandatory to record this in the 
TCEC minutes. Once the modified price bids are received, both original and modified 
price bids are to be opened, compiled and evaluated on a common platform.  
6.35.3 In case major changes become necessary, the TCEC may recommend re-floating of 
RFP with revised specifications.  
6.36 REJECTION OF TECHNICAL BID: 
TCEC must be guided by the sole consideration that only those bidders whose 
products are technically deficient in terms of the qualifying criterion stated in the RFP 
are excluded. The reasons for such rejection of any offers should be clearly recorded 
in the TCEC minutes. While doing so, all efforts should be made to retain as many 
bidders as possible in the fray without compromising on the technical requirements. 
6.36.1 TCEC should identify all line entries whether quoted as essential items or optional 
items whose prices need to be included for price evaluation of the bids. Selection of 
these entries should be done only as per the requirement given in the RFP. 
Exclusion/inclusion of such entries (as the case may be), should be recorded with 
absolute clarity in TCEC minutes to facilitate preparation of CSB by CNC/MMG. 
6.37 ACCEPTANCE OF TCEC RECOMMENDATION: 
The TCEC will scrutinize the bids as per the guidelines given above and submit its 
report for consideration and acceptance by an official authorized (not below level of Sc. 
„F‟) by Director/ Program Director/ Project Director for cases for which they are CFA . 
For other cases TCEC report would be submitted to the Constituting Authority for 
consideration and its acceptance.  
6.38 COMMERCIAL NEGOTIATION COMMITTEE ( CNC):  
All purchases where estimated cost is over Rs. 10 lakh, except for Repeat Orders , 
SWOD, supply orders against rate contracts and the cases covered under para 8.5 .1 
of this Manual shall be scrutinized by the CNC  and would be processed for approval of 
CFA along with the recommendations of CNC. The basic objectives of CNC are to 72 
 study the recommendations of TCEC besides ensuring transparency, fairness and 
negotiating the price.  
6.38.1 The CFA level for demand approval will be the criteria for deciding the level of CNC . 
After opening of financial bids, CNC will complete the negotiation, even if the quoted 
costs exceed the level of delegated powers of the CFA who had approved the demand. 
The CNC will give its recommendations which would be submitted to the CFA, who had 
approved the demand. 
6.38.2 Compositions of „Standing CNCs‟  have been specified for procurement under 
delegated powers as per details given below: 
a) Project Cases within Delegated Powers of Financially Empowered Boards 
(for Appendix ‘B’ of DFP) : 
(i) Rep of Chairman of concerned Board  Chairman1 
(ii) Financial Concurring Authority/ Rep  Finance Member2 
(ii) Chairman, TCEC (for Two Bid System) /if required  Member  
(iv) Head User Group/ Rep  Member  
(v) Head (MMG)/ Rep  Member Secretary  
 
 1An officer of the level of Scientist „G‟, Lab Director and DG (Cluster) would 
chair CNC as reps of Chairmen of PJB, PMB and Apex Board respectively. For 
PJB, nomination of Chairman will be done by Lab Director. If officer of Scientist 
„G‟ leve l is not available, the senior-most officer next to the Lab Director would 
preside over the CNC.  
 2Secretary Defence (Fin)/ FA (DS) would be represented by Addl. FA (R&D) & 
JS, posted in Defence (R&D) for Apex Board sanctioned procurements.  Addl. 
FA (R&D) & JS may nominate IFAs (all SAG level officers) to DG (Clusters) as 
Finance rep in the CNC. IFA R&D and Dy IFA/ Jt IFA would be associated with 
procurements sanctioned by PMB/ PJB .  
b) All Other Cases within the Delegated Powers of Secretary D R&D : 
(i) Rep of  CFA (Not below the level of Scientist „G‟/ 
Equivalent)  Chairman1 
(ii) Financial Concurring Authority/ Rep  Finance Member2 
(iii) Chairman, TCEC (for Two Bid System) , if required  Member  
(iv) Head User Group/ Rep  Member  