117 
 may be collected from trade journals/internet/ technical literature/industry 
sources/international or domestic market survey or Cost Estimation & Reasonability 
Committee (CERC) may be constituted to arrive at an assessed reasonable price 
through cost break-up analysis or by surveying the products performing similar 
functions or using similar components/ materials/ technology etc. 
8.7 EVALUATION AGAINST B ENCH -MARK:  
The Benchmark price is an estimated price and will not be taken as a rigid cut-off price 
in deciding the reasonableness of the quoted price. It will be used as a basis/ yardstick 
for comparison with the quoted price. The decision regarding reasonableness of the 
quoted price would have to be taken by the CNC on the merit of the case. 
8.8 BENCHMARKING/ REASONABLENESS OF PRICES:  
There can be multiple methods of arriving at a benchmark for assessing reasonability 
of prices quoted. It may be acknowledged that a budgetary quote can at best be an 
indicative price but not an assessment of reasonability of cost. Therefore following 
approaches either singly or in combination may be adopted: 
a) Ascertain element wise breakup of cost. For e.g. the quote/selling price would 
generally constitute elements such as material cost, labour cost, overhead cost 
along with applicable warranty and profit. 
b) Ascertain the Last Procurement Price (LPP) of similar item, supplied by the vendor 
recently to same service or other sister services/ organizations. If LPP is of an 
earlier period then Price Level (PL) is required to be fixed as per last delivery of 
item and applicable escalation to be given on that PL till year of delivery. 
c) Escalation will have to be worked out on the basis of material composition and 
analysis of raw materials used to make the item.  The movement of price indices of 
raw materials (year on year average), wholesale price indices, consumer price 
indices, global metal indices such as London metal indices, US indices, UK MM19 
etc. may be used to assess the escalation rate. 
d) Delivery period is to be ascertained and if the delivery is scheduled for more than 
one year then midpoint of delivery period is to be taken for deciding escalation.  
Month wise escalation from date of LPP may be given or if it is yearly then seven 
months or more may be considered for one additional year‟s escalation.  For e.g. if 
item has to be delivered in the year 2014-2018 and LPP is for 2010, then the prices 
have to be escalated from the year 2010 till 2016. 