156 
 included in such contracts and a ceiling of escalation should also be fixed in the case of 
long term contracts. Price variation clause can be provided only in long term contracts 
where the original delivery period exceeds beyond 18 months.  
12.6.3 Fixed Price Contract Providing for Re-determination of Price :  This type of contract 
is intended to eliminate the impact of contingencies due to causes other than those 
foreseen in the case of fixed price contract with price variation. These contingencies 
may be due to the development partner‟s unfamiliarity with the raw materials or 
manufacturing processes, long term contracts, lack of specifications or the use of 
performance rather than product specifications. In such cases prospective re-
determination of price could be done – 
a) On request by either party 
b) At stated intervals/ at a determinable time. 
12.6.4 Fixed Price Incentive Contract : This type of contract is designed to provide a greater 
incentive to the development partner to reduce the contract costs by providing higher 
profits if costs are reduced and lower profits when costs rise. These costs, the ceilings 
on target cost, target profit, a price ceiling and the formula for arriving at final cost are 
all settled before the execution of the contract. This contract type will only be applicable 
for ab-initio developmental contracts. 
12.6.5 Cost Plus Contract : In this type of contract, the development partner is reimbursed the 
costs incurred and also receives a negotiated profit for performing the contract, i.e., the 
profit of the development partner and not the cost of development is fixed. 
Development partner‟s respons ibility towards cost of the item is minimum except that 
he has to use the same care and prudence as is expected under fixed price contracts. 
This type of contract should be encouraged and concluded with development partner 
only when the uncertainty which is involved in the contract performance is of such a 
magnitude that the cost of performance cannot be estimated with sufficient 
reasonableness to permit a type of fixed price contract. It is also necessary to ascertain 
that the development partner has cost accounting machinery and that the cost is clearly 
defined. A strict R&D surveillance has to be maintained by the Dept. to ensure that 
costs are allocated fairly and correctly by the development partner. The RFP should 
provide for the access to Development Partner ‟s books of accounts for verification of 
the costs by inclusion of a book examination clause in the contract. Where supplies or 
works have to continue over a long duration, efforts should be made to convert future 
contracts on a fixed price basis, after allowing a reasonable period to the development 
partner to stabilize their production methods. 