151 
 11.23 DRAWBACK CLAIMS: 
Sometimes goods imported after paying custom duty are to be exported back to the 
country of origin, on non-returnable basis.  In such cases, a drawback claim can be 
preferred on the Customs. Procedure for such claims is laid down in Customs Act, 
1962 as amended. 
11.24 SMALL VALUE IMPORTS THROUGH TA (DEFENCE) ABROAD: 
For requirement of small value items where bidding process may not attract any 
response or is not considered worthwhile, the services of Technical Advisers (TAs) of 
High Commission of India (HCI), London/ Indian Embassy in USA and Russia, may be 
availed for import/ purchase of such items. 
11.24.1 Labs/Estts intending to avail such services, will seek demand approval/ expenditure 
sanction from CFA/ noting of FE release and place funds at the disposal of High 
Commission/ Indian Embassies through DFMM, DRDO HQ to enable TAs to make 
payments for the purchases made through their liaison. 
11.24.2 The normal procedure for freight forwarding and custom clearance, etc. will be 
applicable for such procurements.  
11.25 REPEAT ORDER AND OPTION CLAUSE: 
Provision for Repeat Order/ Option Clause will be governed as per provisions in the 
contract/ supply order as in the case of indigenous procurement. 
11.26 PACKAGING AND DISPATCH: 
The stores are required to be packaged to withstand the conditions of shipment and 
short term storage in transit and in the country of destination. Following guidelines 
should be observed in this regard:  
11.26.1 The Seller shall be responsible for any loss or damage or expenses incurred by the 
Buyer because of inappropriate packing.  
11.26.2 Packages containing articles, classified as hazardous, should be packed and marked in 
accordance with the requirements of the appropriate regulations governing their 
dispatch by sea or air.  
11.26.3 The Seller shall also comply with the detailed packaging and dispatch instructions as 
specified in the contract/ supply order.  
 
  152 
 12 CHAPTER 12  
DESIGN, DEVELOPMENTAL AND FABRICATION CONTRACTS 
12.1 GENERAL: 
With the growth of indigenous industry and concurrent growth of the magnitude of the 
tasks assigned to DRDO during last three decades, it has become necessary for the 
organization to depend on the industry for sub-system development/ fabrication for 
successful execution of the projects. It is obviously not possible to lay down rigid set of 
procedures/ rules covering all contingencies for development/ fabrication contracts. 
Therefore, flexibility has been built in to encourage potential firms/ partners to 
undertake design, development and fabrication of items, equipment, plant and 
machinery required by DRDO. Considering the industrial infrastructure and expertise 
now available in the country, it is appropriate that DRDO should explore assigning the 
tasks of development/ fabrication for the system/ equipment designed by them to the 
private industry.  
12.1.1 Development contracts, unlike the normal contracts/ supply orders, involve 
development work against given design data/ technical specifications/drawings. Due to 
vagaries of the nature of work based on evolving design, the prospective firms may be 
reluctant to undertake such tasks owing to high level of risks expected during 
development/ engineering processes.  
12.1.2 Fabrication contracts involve lower risks and lesser uncertainties but firms are hesitant 
to take up such contracts due to small quantitative requirements and relatively heavy 
investments. These contracts are generally entered into for specific items, which are 
not available off- the-shelf and are specifically fabricated to meet specific requirements.  
12.1.3 The terms and conditions in respect of development/ fabrication contracts need to be 
negotiated on the case to case basis. The progressing of development/ fabrication 
contracts should be based on a collaborative approach between Lab/Estt and 
Development Partner with the understanding that both are equal partners aiming at 
optimum results. 
12.1.4 Design, development and fabrication contracts undertaken by DRDO under „Buy 
(Indian- IDDM)‟ categor y, relevant provisions of DAP- 2020  as amended will be 
applicable. 
12.2 PRINCIPLES AND POLIC Y: 
Whilst it is not possible to lay down any rigid rules covering all the contingencies that 
may arise in the finalization of specific development contracts, the following guiding 