125 
 e) Currencies and rates both in figures and words. 
f) Total number of items and their aggregate value shown below the list of items. 
g) Delivery date to be specified clearly with reference to the date of supply order. 
h) Payment terms. 
i) Payment of taxes and duties: It will be clearly mentioned in the supply order that 
taxes and duties will be paid at actuals on production of relevant documentary 
proof if already deposited or a self certification from the Seller that taxes received 
under the contract would be deposited to the concerned taxation authorities. . 
j) Standard terms and conditions of the RFP. 
k) Details of FIM to be issued along with their time schedule. 
l) Special terms and conditions as mutually agreed. 
m) Orders will be signed for and on behalf of „President of India‟ by an officer 
specifically authorised. 
9.2.2 MMG will prepare Supply Order and acknowledgement as per DRDO.SO.01 and 
DRDO.SO.02  respectively. Form given at DRDO.SO.03  will be used to prepare 
Contracts.. Information regarding S eller‟s bank account details along with IFS Code of 
receiving branch of bank will be reflected in the SO/ Contract to facilitate e-payment.   
9.2.3 Scrutiny of Supply Order : Supply order/ Contract may be referred to the user group/ 
Finance for scrutiny.  
9.2.4 Distribution of Supply Order/ Contra ct: In case of SO, a minimum of four ink signed 
copies and in case of Contract a minimum of three ink signed copies will be prepared. 
Distribution of SO/ Contract will be as follows:  
a) Seller –  
(i) In case of supply order: 2 copies with markings as “Original t o be 
Acknowledged & Return” and “Original to be Retained” ( both ink-signed 
copies ) with a request to return the one marked as “Original to be 
Acknowledged and Return” for settlement of bills  
(ii) In case of contract: 1 copy ( ink-signed ) 
b) Paying Authority (Local CDA (R&D) ) – 1 copy ( ink-signed ) 
c) Demanding officer – 1 copy 
d) Stores Movement Control Div. (Receipt & Dispatch Section) – 1 copy  126 
 e) Bill Payment Section – 1 copy 
f) Case file – 1 copy ( ink-signed ) 
9.2.5 Dispatch of Supply Order/Contract : The SO/ Contract will be signed only after 
obtaining expenditure sanction by the CFA and dispatched to the Seller along with 
required number of blank bill forms. Lab/Estt will ensure receipt of BGs of appropriate 
value and validity . Copy of the SO/ Contract will invariably be hosted on the website of 
DRDO and CPP portal for procurements on OBM basis or where RFP was hosted on 
the website/ CPP Portal. 
9.3 ORDER ACCEPTANCE: 
9.3.1 Acceptance of SO : A supply order is not signed by both parties, namely the Buyer and 
the Seller. It becomes a deemed contract and comes into force with acceptance of the 
bid as per mutually agreed terms & conditions contained in the RFP and the firm‟s offer. 
The firm should check the supply order and convey acceptance of the same within 
seven days o f its receipt. If such an acceptance or communication conveying firm‟s 
objection to certain parts of the supply order is not received within the stipulated period, 
the supply order is deemed to have been fully accepted by the firm.  
9.3.2 Acceptance of Contract : In case of contract, both parties sign the document thus 
conveying their acceptance. In such cases, there is no requirement of 
acknowledgement receipt. 
9.4 POST CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS: 
MMG/ User Group will monitor the progress of supply order/ contract specifically 
related to the validity of BGs given by the firm, the stage payments, delivery period, 
issue of duty exemption certificates, stages of inspection and design reviews as 
envisaged. 
 
  