57 
 access to bidders. 
6.13 PREPARATION OF THE REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL:  
Request For Proposal (RFP) is the most important document in the procurement 
process. The RFP will be prepared by MMG with due care and should contain 
complete details of the items or services required, qualification criteria for vendors 
wherever applicable, standard terms & conditions, special terms & conditions, 
evaluation criteria, price bid format and clear instructions for submission of bids. MMG 
may consult Indenter and Quality Assurance Cell (QAC) of the Lab/Estt, wherever 
required, while finalizing the RFP. 
6.13.1 All RFPs must invariably carry a clause that the Government reserves the right to 
cancel the procurement process at any stage and accept or reject any bid, fully or 
partially, without assigning any reasons.  
6.13.2 RFP should also specify that Indian bidders should quote only in Indian currency and 
foreign bidders may quote in a currency, specified in the RFP, with the understating 
that payment in foreign currency is subject to regulations by the Reserve Bank of India. 
6.13.3 The RFP should ask the foreign bidder to quote the FOB/ FCA cost. However, for the 
purposes of comparison of bids, the foreign bidders will also be asked to quote CIF/ 
CIP cost up to a specified place of delivery. It would also be clarified that if the CIF/ CIP 
cost is not indicated, their bid will be loaded by 10% of FOB/ FCA cost to arrive at the 
CIF/ CIP price for purpose of bid evaluation. Quotation from Indian bidder shall be 
sought on FOR (destination) basis. 
6.13.4 No preferential terms and conditions will be indicated in the RFP for any category of 
bidders except as provided by Govt. orders/instructions issued from time to time. 
6.13.5 The evaluation/ loading criteria with respect to important terms having financial 
implications like payment terms etc. need to be specified in unambiguous terms so that 
the evaluation of bids after opening of bids could be made in a transparent manner 
without any subjectivity.  
6.14 FORMAT OF RFP:  
The suggested format for the RFP for procurement of goods / services is as per 
DRDO. BM.02. The specimen format is based on various instructions contained in this 
Manual. The RFP consists of following seven parts:  
6.14.1 Part I  contains General Information and Instructions for the Bidders about the RFP 
such as the time, place of submission and opening of bids, validity period of bids, etc.  58 
 6.14.2 Part II  contains Standard Terms and Conditions of RFP which have legal implications 
and will form part of the contract/ supply order with the successful Bidder(s). Therefore, 
neither deviation from the text given in the clauses nor deletion of any of these clauses 
should be admitted. In case a deviation from these clauses has to be considered/ 
allowed, approval of DRDO HQ will be required. 
6.14.3 Part III  contains Special Terms and Conditions applicable to this RFP and which are 
supplementary conditions applicable to a specific RFP. A conscious decision needs to 
be taken to incorporate the relevant clauses from this set. The wordings of these 
clauses can also be appropriately modified to suit a particular case.  These conditions 
will also form part of the contract with the successful bidder(s). 
6.14.4 Part IV  contains Vendor Qualification Criteria such as minimum level of experience, 
past performance, technical capability, manufacturing facilities etc. to be met by the 
bidders. This part is case specific and should be included only if required. This part is 
not normally recommended for the procurement of Commercial-Off- The-Shelf (COTS) 
items. It may be invoked with the approval of CFA for large works, major plants and 
machinery, complex information technology systems, medical equipment, sophisticated 
weapon systems, telecom equipment and other special goods. In the absence of this 
part, no vendor would be disqualified on the basis of capacity/ capability. 
6.14.5 Part V  contains Details of the store(s)/ service(s) required e.g. Technical Specifications, 
Delivery Period, Mode of Delivery, Consignee Details etc.  
6.14.6 Part VI  contains Evaluation Criteria of bids which can be suitably amplified/ modified to 
suit the specific requirements of each case. 
6.14.7 Part VII  contains Format of Price Bid which can be set to get the desired cost break-up 
as per requirements. All bidders will be requested to indicate time-wise and currency-
wise amount required as per the price bid in the given below. In case, a bidder does not 
provide time-wise cash flow details in the price bid, the amount quoted in the price bid 
will not be discounted for comparison purposes. 
Time  Currency   
Total  
Cash  
Flow US Dollar  Euros  Pound  
Sterling  Rupees  Other  
(Specify)  
       