157 
 12.7 FABRICATION CONTRACT: 
Fabrication contract means a one-time contract concluded with a contractor or a firm 
for fabrication and supply of components, sub- assemblies or an assembly, which are 
not commercially available, against design drawings/ specifications to be supplied by 
the Lab/Estt.  
12.7.1 Fabrication contracts, which do not have elaborate system requirements, test 
procedures and activity monitoring, can be placed following the normal procedures for 
supply orders as given in the preceding chapters. Material Management Forms as 
applicable for supply orders may be used for fabrication contracts with suitable 
modification wherever required. Any other additional terms and conditions if applicable 
to the fabrication contract may be included wherever desired. 
12.8 CFA FOR VARIOUS CONTRACTS: 
Various types of contracts can be adopted depending upon the nature, complexity and 
time span of the developmental work/project. Firm-Fixed-Price contracts, Fixed Price 
Contracts with Price Variation Clause and Fabrication Contracts will be concluded by 
Lab/Estts as per the delegated financial powers vis-à-vis mode of bidding. Fixed-Price 
contracts providing for Re-determination of Price, Fixed Price Incentive contracts and 
Cost Plus contracts will be adopted only with the prior approval of Secretary Defence 
(R&D ) or higher authorities through DFMM. Concurrence of finance will be taken as 
per the delegation of financial powers.  
12.9 COSTING AND TIME ESTIMATION: 
Cost of developmental/ fabrication contracts will be estimated considering all elements 
of cost, both Non-Recurring Expenditure (NRE) and prototype costs, systematically as 
per costing and industrial engineering methods. These methods mainly rely on the 
information furnished to the cost accountants by the engineers/ scientists through their 
past experience of having performed similar (or same) task or by their precise 
estimation of various inputs required to complete the contract, based on the firmed up 
design drawing/data. The developmental contracts, which are being executed for the 
first time, may not be amenable to these cost accounting techniques, hence personal 
experience/ logical assessment/ experience of similar development by other Labs/Estts 
may be utilized for arriving at approximate cost & time estimate and in achieving 
optimum value for money when the contracts are concluded. Directors of Lab/Estt may 
hire services of professional engineering and costing consultants (if desired, whenever 
in-house costing is inadequate) for proper cost estimation in case of expected high 
value contracts. 
12.9.1 In case the developmental contract leads to production, it is expected that per unit 