1 
 1 CHAPTER 1  
 INTRODUCTION 
1.1 ORGANISATIONAL OBJECTIVES AND FUNCTIONS: 
The vision of Defence Research & Development Organisation (DRDO) is to empower 
India with cutting edge defence technologies. Its mission is to facilitate achievement of 
self-reliance in critical technologies, while equipping the Armed Forces with state- of-
the-art equipment, weapon systems and platforms developed in partnership with the 
industry, academia and other R&D institutions. DRDO was set up in 1958 with only ten 
laboratories and has grown manifold and emerged today as a core defence research 
organization with a large network of laboratories and establishments spread across the 
country. It has completed many major projects relating to development of strategic & 
tactical military hardware and related technologies successfully, which has led DRDO 
to win national and global recognition.  
1.2 PURPOSE OF MANUAL: 
The purpose of this Procurement Manual is to establish the detailed procedure to be 
followed in DRDO for procurement of goods and services keeping in view of its 
organisation specific requirements. The manual incorporates several policy and 
procedural changes that have taken place in the Government since its last issue in 
2016, the latest CVC guidelines, and general instructions/notifications containing 
directions of the Central Govt. relating to specific industry segments. The aim of th e 
manual is to provide a standard reference point for authorities under DRDO for all 
procurements for ensuring efficient, economic, transparent, fair and equitable 
procedure promoting competition in accordance with the relevant rules and regulations 
of the Govt. of India.  
1.3 SCOPE OF MANUAL: 
a) The manual will be followed for procurement of all kinds of goods/ stores/ 
services and development contracts. This procedure will also apply for 
acquiring all types of services/ outsourcing of services, job contracts, including 
packing, unpacking, preservation, transportation, insurance, delivery, printing 
and other services, leasing, technical assessment, consultancy, systems study, 
software development, etc.  
b) In order to facilitate expeditious installation of equipment/ plant & machinery, 
civil works limited to installation of equipment like laying of foundation, electrical 
earthing/ fittings and hook-up can be clubbed along with procurement of 2 
 equipment. However, for civil works beyond these, MES/ Directorate of Civil 
Works & Estates (DCW&E) in DRDO should be consulted. 
1.4 EFFECTIVE DATE: 
The Procurement Manual - 2020 (PM- 2020) will come into force with effect from the 
date specified in the Govt. letter.  However, all on-going cases of procurement in which 
Request for Proposal (RFP)/ Contract/ Supply Order has already been issued may 
continue to be regulated as per the provisions contained in the issued RFP/ Contract/ 
Supply Order. 
1.5 APPLICABILITY: 
The principles and procedures contained in this Manual are to be followed for the 
procurement of goods and services by DRDO . 
1.6 EXCLUSIONS / NON APPLICABILITY OF THE MANUAL: 
a) This document will not be applicable for creation of civil infrastructure. 
b) Govt to Govt Agreement / Inter Government Agreement (G2GA/ IGA) : In case of 
procurements under long term General/Umbrella contracts/Main Agreements 
between the Govt. of India and the Government of the country concerned, provisions 
of such contracts/agreements will prevail over similar provision of the DRDO 
Procurement Manual in respect of the format of the RFP, quotations, general terms 
and conditions, time of submission of quotations, LD clause, etc. Such procurement 
will be treated as similar to PAC procurement. 
1.7 STANDARD TEMPLATES: 
Labs/Estts shall use the templates of Procurement Forms (Materials Management 
Forms) as amended, issued separately with the approval of Secretary Defence (R&D) 
in consultation with Addl FA (R&D). 
1.7.1 Any additional information on procurement forms considered essential for t he local/ 
specific needs of the Lab/Estt may, however, be incorporated without affecting the 
basic templates. 
1.8 REMOVAL OF DOUBTS AND SUGGESTIONS FOR MODIFICATIONS/ 
AMENDMENTS: 
Where any instance of variance between the provisions of this Manual and other 
Government Orders comes to notice or a doubt arises as to the interpretation of any 
provision of this Manual, the matter should be referred through proper channel to 