150 
 11.20.6 Packing List : Packing list indicates the exact nature, quantity and quality of contents 
together with address, dimensions, weight, etc. of each package in a shipment and 
helps in clearance through Customs.  
11.21 EXPORT OF ITEMS NOT REPAIRABLE IN INDIA: 
Occasions may arise when imported equipment/ defective parts needs to be sent to 
OEM/ authorized agency for repairs/ replacement. Following documents would be 
required for booking the store for export: 
a) Export proforma, 
b) Requisition for carriage, 
c) Packing note-cum-invoice, 
d) Airworthy certificate, 
e) Airlift sanction, 
f) Firm‟s letter of acceptance,  
g) A copy of expenditure sanction accorded by CFA 
h) „Not Repairable in India‟ certificate by the Director of Lab/Estt,  
i) Initial import details like Bill of Entry, Bill of Lading/ AWB, etc., and 
j) Appropriate safeguards to protect the Govt. property in the form of BG/ Insurance 
cover. 
11.22 SPECIAL PROVISIONS FOR EQUIPMENT IMPORTED FOR DEMONSTRATION/ 
TRIAL/ TRAINING: 
Special items imported by DRDO Labs/Estts for the purpose of trial or demonstration of 
defence equipment are exempted from payment of customs duty under S No. 8 of 
Customs Notification No. 39/96 (Goods imported for trial, demonstration or training 
before an authority under the Ministry of Defence in the Government of India) as 
amended. A certificate from the Under Secretary to the Government of India in the 
Ministry of Defence is to be produced to the Assistant/ Deputy Commissioner of 
Customs, in each case that the goods imported are for the purpose of trial, 
demonstration or training. T he Lab/Estt will undertake, in each case, to pay the duty 
leviable on such goods (except those which are certified by the said Under Secretary 
as having been consumed in the process of trial, demonstration or training) which are 
not re-exported within a period of two years from the date of import or within such 
extended period that the said Assistant/ Deputy Commissioner may allow. 