141 
 11 CHAPTER 11  
SPECIAL FEATURES IN PROCUREMENT FROM ABROAD 
11.1 GENERAL: 
Although, proposals for procurement of goods/ services with likely participation of 
foreign bidders will continue to be processed as per the procedure laid down in the 
preceding chapters, Labs/Estts are advised to address some special features as 
explained in this chapter for such procurements .  
11.2 DEMAND PROCESSING, BIDDING, PLACEMENT OF ORDER & MONITORING: 
The procedure for demand initiation & approval, RFP & Bid processing, placement of 
SO/ Contract and monitoring will be as per the guidelines given in preceding chapters 
of this Manual. However, following additional aspects need to be considered where 
participation of foreign bidders is anticipated. 
11.2.1 Foreign bidders will be asked to quote CIF/CIP cost up to a specified place of delivery 
in addition to the FOB/ FCA (gateway) cost. It would also be clarified that  
a) CIF/CIP cost is for the purpose of bid evaluation and the Buyer reserves the right 
to place order on either FOB/FCA (gateway) or CIF/CIP (destination) basis; and 
b) If the CIF/CIP cost is not indicated, their bid will be loaded by 10% of FOB/FCA 
cost to arrive at the price for the purpose of bid evaluation. 
11.2.2 In case the legislation of a country does not permit the OEMs and/or other vendors/ 
bidders to respond directly, RFP may be issued to the designated agency in that 
country. 
11.2.3 Copy of the RFP under open bidding mode may be forwarded to prospective 
Embassies/ High Commissions in India and Indian Embassies/ High Commissions 
abroad for wider publicity. The cost of RFP documents will not be insisted upon and left 
to the discretion of the respective Embassies/ High Commissions abroad. 
11.2.4 Lab/Estt may seek clarifications, if any, on the bids through correspondence/ fax/ e-
mail. 
11.2.5 Generally, foreign bidders do not extend the validity of offer , the bid evaluation, etc. 
should be done promptly to avoid expiry of quotations and revision of prices. 
11.2.6 Handling of Reps of Foreign Firm: In certain cases, bids are received directly from OEM 
and they authorize an individual or firm in India to represent them in TCEC or CNC. In 142 
 such cases, authorization letter from OEM should be recorded in the minutes of TCEC 
or CNC meeting and participant should be referred to/ recorded only as rep authorised 
to attend the meeting on behalf of said OEM and not as Indian Agent. Care should be 
taken in all such cases that the person authorised to attend the meeting on behalf of 
OEM is expected to submit clarifications/ revised bid etc., as the case may be, only in 
the original letter head of the OEM. It is re-emphasized that only Indian Agent enlisted 
as per para 3.6 of this Manual or 100% subsidiary of OEM in India may submit offer on 
behalf of OEM if they have been authorised for the same by the OEM. 
11.2.7 In respect of bids received from abroad, it may not be always possible for the foreign 
bidders to come for CNC  meeting except for high value items. In such cases, CNC may 
invite revised best offer with all terms clarified from the lowest bidder through fax/e-mail 
before finalizing the price. 
11.2.8 The term of delivery should preferably be decided on FCA/FOB (gateway) basis. 
However, the Buyer may finalize any other term of delivery on the merit of case as per 
the INCOTERMS 2020 issued by International Chamber of Commerce (ICC). 
11.2.9 Confirmed LC as a condition of payment should be avoided as it undermines the 
credibility of our nationalized banks. 
11.2. 10 The nature of services to be rendered by Indian agent of OEM/ foreign Sellers, if any, 
and the commission payable to Indian agent shall be explicitly reflected in the supply 
order/contract. The commission shall be paid in accordance with para 11.3 of this 
Manual .  
11.2. 11 CFA will be determined on the basis of 110% of the negotiated cost to cater for basic 
customs duty, currency fluctuation, freight and bank charges as applicable. However, 
should the expenditure exceed this limit, approval of appropriate CFA will be taken at 
actual. 
11.2. 12 The letter conveying the expenditure sanction for the foreign procurement should 
invariably incorporate the total amount to be paid in foreign currency including 
insurance and freight charges as well as mode of payment (through LC or DBT). 
11.2. 13 Payments towards training, installation & commissioning and AMC of capital equipment 
should be explicitly mentioned in the contract/ SO. 
11.2. 14 Supply orders shall include special instructions, if any, governing packing/ forwarding, 
insurance, airfreight, transportation, etc.  