178 
 a) While submitting his bills for the goods supplied against the Rate Contract/  
Price Agreement, the Contractor shall give the following certificate also: 
“I/We certify that the stores of description identical to the stores supplied to the 
Government under the contract herein have not been offered/sold by me/us to 
any other person/ organization up to the date of bill/the date of completion of 
supplies against supply orders placed during the currency of the RC/PA, at a 
price lower than the price charged to the Government under the contract.”  
b) If the Contractor sells any goods at lower than the contract price, except covered 
by any of the three exceptions indicated above as per para 15.13.11 (c) of this 
Manual, such sales have also to be disclosed in the aforesaid certificate to be 
given by the Contractor to the Government. The obligations of the Contractor in 
this regard will be limited with reference to the goods identical to the contracted 
goods sold or agreed to be sold during the currency of the contract. 
15.13.13 The successful bidder shall maintain stocks at the station and shall make deliveries 
against supply orders from such stocks within the specified period. 
15.14 PERFORMANCE SECURITY / WARRANTY BOND :  
Depending on the anticipated overall drawal against a RC/PA and, also, anticipated 
number of parallel RCs to be issued for an item, the authority concluding such contract 
will obtain Performance Security  / Warranty Bond in the form of BG of reasonable 
amount from the RC/PA holders. A suitable clause to this effect is to be incorporated in 
the RFP. It shall, however, not be demanded in the supply orders issued against 
RC/PA. 
15.15 PLACEMENT OF SO AGAINST RC/PA: 
The demand for the procurement of items on RC/PA will be approved by CFA as per 
delegation of financial powers vis-à-vis mode of bidding on which the agreement has 
been concluded. Based on the approval of such demand, MMG will place the SO on 
RC/PA holder as per the format DRDO.RC.02 . 
15.16 RENEWAL AND EXTENSION OF RC/PA: 
It should be ensured that new RC/PA are made operative right after the expiry of the 
existing contract without any gap. In case, however, it is not possible to conclude new 
RC/PA due to some special reasons, timely steps are to be taken to extend the 
existing contracts with same terms, conditions etc. for a suitable period, with the 
consent of the Contract holders. Period of such extension should generally not be 
more than three months. While extending the existing contracts, it shall be ensured 