81 
 (ii) Vendors should be informed that the advance given would become interest 
bearing in case of termination of order/contract due to their default or if it is 
used for the purposes other than this contract as per the terms stated in the 
RFP. 
(iii) Delivery Period (DP) extension for the default of the Seller would make 
advances paid interest bearing.   
6.44.3 Stage/ Part Payments : Where progressive payments are anticipated, the same shall 
be agreed against identified and verifiable milestones. The same should broadly be as 
per the RFP. All progressive payments, where stores of equivalent amount are not 
received, should be secured. In cases, where the stage payment is not mentioned in 
the RFP, the same may be approved by the CFA on the recommendations of CNC.  
6.44.4 Pro rata payment : In case the bidder requests for pro rata payment, the same may be 
approved by the CFA on the recommendations of CNC.  
6.44.5 Payment to Foreign Firms : Payment to foreign Sellers may be done through Letter of 
Credit/ Direct Bank Transfer. Details are given in the Annexure ‘A’ of this Manual.    
6.44.6 Deviation from Standard Terms of Payment : CFA can approve any of the payment 
terms mentioned above. Any waivers from above payment terms would be considered 
as deviation from the prescribed procedure and will be dealt as per para 1.10 of this 
Manual except following categories of procurement cases, where CFA would accord 
approval with the concurrence of associated Finance 
(i) Procurement of stores/ services on PAC/ Single Tender basis with approval of CFA 
concerned. 
(ii) Orders for procurement of spares/ repair of stores from OEMs. 
(iii) Procurement of small value procurement (upto Rs.2.5 Lakh ). 
6.45 APPORTIONMENT OF QUANTITY: 
6.45.1 Where it is Pre-decided : The total order quantity would be split in the ratio as 
indicated in the RFP. Ratio of splitting would be preferably in favour of L1. All efforts 
would be made to negotiate a reasonable price with the L1 bidder and, thereafter, 
counter offers would be made to L2, L3 etc. sequentially at the rate & terms and 
conditions accepted, except duties and taxes, by L1. If none of the other bidders agree 
to match the negotiated rate & terms and conditions of L1, except duties and taxes, 
then the order may be placed on L1 for the full quantity, else alternative source may be 
explored through separate bidding process. 82 
 6.45.2 Where it is not Pre-decided : If L1 does not have the capacity to supply the entire 
quantity, the balance order may be placed on L2, L3, etc. sequentially at the rate & 
terms and conditions, except duties and taxes, negotiated with L1 in a fair, transparent 
and equitable manner. In case the bidders are not in a position to execute the total 
order quantity, then alternative source may be explored through separate bidding 
process for the balanced quantity .  
6.46 BUY -BACK OFFER: 
6.46.1 When it is decided with the approval of the competent authority to replace an existing 
old item(s) with a new and better version, the department may trade the existing old 
item while purchasing the new one. For this purpose, a suitable clause is to be 
incorporated in the bidding document so that the prospective and interested bidders 
formulate their bids accordingly. Depending on the value and condition of the old item 
to be traded, the time as well as the mode of handing over the old item to the 
successful bidder should be decided and relevant details in this regard suitably 
incorporated in the bidding document. Further, suitable provision should also be kept in 
the bidding document to enable the purchaser either to trade or not to trade the item 
while purchasing the new one. In such cases, the RFP should call for the bidders to 
quote the price of new equipment and buy-back offer for the existing equipment 
explicitly in their bid. CFA/ CNC may assess a benchmark price for the item to be 
traded off in buy-back process. On buy-back cases, L1 would be decided on the basis 
of net cash outgo as per provisions of para 8.3 of this Manual. Lab/Estt will follow the 
security guidelines in vogue while trading the old item against buy-back offer. 
6.47 CONCLUDING CNC MEETING (FOR CNC CASES) :  
6.47.1 Detailed minutes of the CNC meeting will be recorded, highlighting the deviations, if 
any, from prevailing procedures and/ or from the RFP along with recommendations 
made by the committee as per DRDO.BM.07 . The gist of CNC recommendations must 
appear on the page containing signatures of the members. 
6.47.2 The minutes of the CNC must be issued duly signed by all the members and cleared by 
the Chairman. 
6.48 DISSENTING OPINION: 
Dissenting opinion, wherever expressed, will be recorded in the CNC minutes and the 
same will be referred to CFA for decision.  
6.49 LETTER OF INTENT (LO I): 
At times, it may be necessary to follow up the negotiations with the issue of a LOI or 