177 
 15.13.7 In case of emergency, the Buyer may purchase the rate contracted item through ad-hoc 
contract with a new Seller. 
15.13.8 Usually, the terms of delivery in RC/PA are FOR dispatching station. This is so, 
because such agreements are to take care of the users spread all over the country. 
However, wherever it is decided to enter into RC/PA which is FOR destination, the cost 
of transportation should be separately asked for. 
15.13.9 The Buyer and the authorized users of the RC/PA are entitled to place supply orders up 
to the last day of the validity of the agreement and, though supplies against such supply 
orders will be effected beyond the validity period of the agreement, all such supplies will 
be governed by the terms and conditions of the RC/PA. 
15.13.10 Supply orders, incorporating definite quantity of goods to be supplied as per the term s 
and conditions of agreement, will be issued for obtaining supplies on need basis. 
15.13.11 Fall Clause : All RC/ PA will be governed by “Fall Clause”. The following Fall Clause will 
invariably form part of the agreement: 
a) The prices charged for the stores supplied under the agreement by the Seller 
shall in no event exceed the lowest price at which the Seller sells the items of 
identical description to any other person/organization during the period till 
performance of all supply orders placed during the currency of the agreement is 
completed. 
b) If, at any time, during the said period, the Seller reduces the sale price of such 
stores or sells stores to any other person/organization at a price lower than the 
price chargeable under the agreement, he shall forthwith notify such reduction or 
sale to the authority which has concluded the RC/PA; and the price payable 
under the agreement for the stores supplied after the date of coming into force of 
such reduction or sale shall stand correspondingly reduced. 
c) However, the above stipulation will not apply to: 
(i) Export by the Contractor. 
(ii) Sale of stores as original equipment at prices lower than the prices 
charged for normal replacement. 
(iii) Sale of stores such as drugs, perishable goods which have expiry dates. 
15.13.12 Certificate in respect of Fall Clause :  178 
 a) While submitting his bills for the goods supplied against the Rate Contract/  
Price Agreement, the Contractor shall give the following certificate also: 
“I/We certify that the stores of description identical to the stores supplied to the 
Government under the contract herein have not been offered/sold by me/us to 
any other person/ organization up to the date of bill/the date of completion of 
supplies against supply orders placed during the currency of the RC/PA, at a 
price lower than the price charged to the Government under the contract.”  
b) If the Contractor sells any goods at lower than the contract price, except covered 
by any of the three exceptions indicated above as per para 15.13.11 (c) of this 
Manual, such sales have also to be disclosed in the aforesaid certificate to be 
given by the Contractor to the Government. The obligations of the Contractor in 
this regard will be limited with reference to the goods identical to the contracted 
goods sold or agreed to be sold during the currency of the contract. 
15.13.13 The successful bidder shall maintain stocks at the station and shall make deliveries 
against supply orders from such stocks within the specified period. 
15.14 PERFORMANCE SECURITY / WARRANTY BOND :  
Depending on the anticipated overall drawal against a RC/PA and, also, anticipated 
number of parallel RCs to be issued for an item, the authority concluding such contract 
will obtain Performance Security  / Warranty Bond in the form of BG of reasonable 
amount from the RC/PA holders. A suitable clause to this effect is to be incorporated in 
the RFP. It shall, however, not be demanded in the supply orders issued against 
RC/PA. 
15.15 PLACEMENT OF SO AGAINST RC/PA: 
The demand for the procurement of items on RC/PA will be approved by CFA as per 
delegation of financial powers vis-à-vis mode of bidding on which the agreement has 
been concluded. Based on the approval of such demand, MMG will place the SO on 
RC/PA holder as per the format DRDO.RC.02 . 
15.16 RENEWAL AND EXTENSION OF RC/PA: 
It should be ensured that new RC/PA are made operative right after the expiry of the 
existing contract without any gap. In case, however, it is not possible to conclude new 
RC/PA due to some special reasons, timely steps are to be taken to extend the 
existing contracts with same terms, conditions etc. for a suitable period, with the 
consent of the Contract holders. Period of such extension should generally not be 
more than three months. While extending the existing contracts, it shall be ensured 