83 
 fax acceptance due to imminence of expiry of the bid or for any other reason. LOI 
amounts to final acceptance of the offer. It is, therefore, imperative that all-important 
and relevant aspects such as description of stores, quantity, price, delivery period, etc. 
are properly reflected in the advance communication. It will be ensured that in such 
cases there is no variation between the LOI and the formal supply order issued 
subsequently. The advance communication should specifically confirm acceptance of 
the offer and state that the formal supply order showing full details will follow. The 
formal supply order will be issued without any avoidable delay.  
6.49.1 LOI is a legally binding document and should be issued on the recommendations of 
CNC if the negotiated amount does not exceed the estimated cost in demand approval 
and no deviation from the prevailing procurement process has been made so far. 
6.50 CHANGE OF NAME OF VENDOR:  
6.50.1 At times, the vendor participating in the procurement process, initiates the process for 
change of name with corporate regulatory authorities, due to change in business 
strategy, merger/acquisition or any other reason resulting in losing its original legal 
identity. Whenever the vendor applies to the regulatory authorities for „change of name‟, 
it must inform the procuring entity through a letter about proposed change of name and 
the reason for the same. When change of name is approved by regulatory authorities, 
the following documents must be submitted to the procuring entities at the earliest. In 
case the documents are in languages other than English, then a self certified/ 
official/legal translation of original documents must be submitted :   
a) Information Proforma for Vendors as per Chapter 3 of PM- 2016 . 
b) New certificate of incorporation issued by the appropriate Registrar of Companies in 
case of Indian vendors or an equivalent organisation in the country from where the new 
entity would be operating in case of foreign vendor .  
c) Copy of RBI Approval in case of merger/acquisition between Indian and foreign 
vendor(s). 
d) Undertaking/Novation agreement by new vendor (for cases where vendor has submitted 
the response to RFP . 
6.50.2 Approving Authorities for the Change of Name of Vendor while Participating in 
the Procurement Process:  DG (Cluster) concerned and Secretary DD(R&D) may 
accord approval to accept change of the name of the vendor during pre-contract stage 
and post contract stage respectively. Legal advice may be sought where ever required. 
On grant of consent to the case of change of name of vendor, the following documents, 
as applicable, bearing the new entity name will be submitted by vendor: 84 
 a) EMD/Performance Security  
b) Advance/ Stage Payment Bank Guarantee/Bank Guarantee for Warranty 
c) New Pre-Contract Integrity Pact (PCIP) and Integrity Pact Bank Guarantee (IPBG) 
d) Any other applicable Financial Instrument/Document 
  