201 
 5. Earnest Money (Security Deposit)  
 
5.1 While submitting commercial bid, the BIDDER shall deposit an amount 
……………………….. (to be specified in RFP) as Earnest Money/Security Deposit, 
with the BUYER through any of the following Instruments. 
 
 i) Bank Draft or Pay Order in favour of ………………………………….  
ii) A confirmed guarantee by an Indian Nationalised Bank, promising payment of 
the guaranteed sum to the BUYER on demand within three working days 
without any demur whatsoever and without seeking any reasons whatsoever.  
The demand for payment by the BUYER shall be treated as conclusive proof 
of payment. 
iii) Any other mode or through any other instrument (to be specified in the RFP). 
 
5.2 The Earnest Money/Security Deposit shall be valid upto a period of five years or the 
complete conclusion of the contractual obligati ons to the complete satisfaction of 
both the BIDDER and the BUYER, including warranty period, whichever is later. 
 
5.3 In case of the successful BIDDER a clause would also be incorporated in the Article 
pertaining to Performance Bond in the Purchase Contract that the provisions of 
Sanction for Violations shall be applicable for forfeiture of Performance Bond in case 
of decision by the BUYER to forfeit the same without assigning any reason for 
imposing sanction for violation of this Pact. 
 
5.4 No interest shall be payable by the BUYER to the BIDDER on Earnest 
Money/Security Deposit for the period of its currency. 
 
6. Sanctions for Violations  
 
6.1 Any breach of the aforesaid provisions by the BIDDER or any one employed by it or 
acting on its behalf (whether with or without the knowledge of the BIDDER) shall 
entitle the BUYER to take all or any one of the following actions, wherever required:- 
 
i) To immediately call off the pre contract negotiations without assigning any 
reason or giving any compensation to the BIDDER. However, the 
proceedings with the other BIDDER(s) would continue. 202 
 ii) The Earnest Money Deposit (in pre-contract stage) and/or Security 
Deposit/Performance Bond (after the contract is signed) shall stand forfeited 
either fully or partially, as decided by the BUYER and the BUYER shall not be 
required to assign and reason therefore. 
iii) To immediately cancel the contract, if already signed, without giving any 
compensation to the BIDDER. 
iv) To recover all sums already paid by the BUYER, and in case of an Indian 
BIDDER with interest thereon at 2% higher than the prevailing Prime Lending 
Rate of State Bank of India, while in case of a BIDDER from a country other 
than India with interest thereon at 2% higher than the LIBOR.  If any 
outstanding payment is due to the BIDDER from the BUYER in connection 
with any other contract for any other stores, such outstanding payment could 
also be utilized to recover the aforesaid sum and interest. 
v) To encash the advance bank guarantee and performance bond/warranty 
bond, if furnished by the BIDDER, in order to recover the payments, already 
made by the BUYER, along with interest. 
vi) To cancel all or any other Contracts with the BIDDER. The BIDDER shall be 
liable to pay compensation for any loss or damage to the BUYER resulting 
from such cancellation/rescission and the BUYER shall be entitled to deduct 
the amount so payable from the money(s) due to the BIDDER. 
vii) To debar the BIDDER from participating in future bidding processes of the 
Government of India for a minimum period of five years, which may be further 
extended at the discretion of the BUYER.   
viii) To recover all sums paid in violation of this Pact by BIDDER(s) to any 
middleman or agent or broker with a view to securing the contract. 
ix) In cases where irrevocable Letters of Credit have been received in respect of 
any contract signed by the BUYER with the BIDDER, the same shall not be 
opened.  
x) Forfeiture of Performance Bond in case of a decision by the BUYER to forfeit 
the same without assigning any reason for imposing sanction for violation of 
this Pact. 
 