131 
 supplies up to 10% (ten percent) of the original value of the contract. CFA will be 
determined with reference to the value of the original order plus excess supply. There 
would not be any requirement of holding CNC to review such acceptance of excess/ 
short supply. 
10.6 DENIAL CLAUSE: 
Variations in the rates of statutory levies within the original delivery schedule will be 
allowed if taxes are explicitly mentioned in the contract/ supply order and delivery has 
not been made till the revision of the statutory levies. Buyer reserves the right not to 
reimburse the enhancement of cost due to increase in statutory levies beyond the 
original delivery period of the supply order/ contract even if such extension is granted 
without imposition of LD. 
10.7 DELIVERY PERIOD (DP): 
Timely delivery as per the DP stipulated in the supply order/ contract is one of the most 
important procurement objectives. The stores/services are considered to have been 
delivered/ completed only when the contractual obligations of Seller as stated in the 
supply order/ contract, except the ones related to post acceptance, have been fully 
met. 
10.7.1 Failure to deliver within the DP : When the supplies/ services do not materialize within 
the stipulated contract delivery date, the Buyer has the following options: 
a) Extension of DP : Extend DP, if need persists, with/without imposition of LD and 
denial clause in accordance with para 10.8 and 10.6 of this Manual respectively. 
b) Re-fixing of DP:  DP may be re-fixed, in the under-mentioned circumstances, with 
the approval of CFA and the concurrence of financial advisor. Such re-fixation of 
DP will always be without imposition of LD. 
(i) Cases where delay is attributable to the Lab/Estt for whatever reasons.  
(ii) Where product realization is dependent on approval of advance samples 
and delay occurs in approving the samples even though submitted in time. 
(iii) Cases where the entire production is controlled by the Government. 
c) Canceling the contract in accordance with para 10.15 of this Manual. Lab/Estt. may 
consi der purchasing the non-supplied quantity afresh if need persists.   
10.7.2 Guidelines for the Extension of DP : Amendments affecting delivery period will not be 
made as a matter of routine. In exceptional cases, where Seller has asked for revision 