105 
 refixed /extended except for reasons solely attributable to the Buyer or 
Force Majeure. 
(ii) Cases where movement of exchange rate falls within the limit of ± 2 % of 
the reference exchange rate adopted for the valuation of the Contract. 
e) The impact of notified ERV shall be computed on a yearly basis for the outflow as 
mentioned by the Bidder in their bid and shall be paid / refunded before the end 
of the financial year based on certificatio n by the Buyer.”  
7.3.12 Force Majeure Clause : Force majeure clause allows a party to suspend or terminate 
the performance of its obligation when certain circumstances beyond their control arise, 
making performance inadvisable, commercially impracticable, illegal or impossible. The 
provision may state that the contract is temporarily suspended, or that it is terminated in 
the event of force majeure continues for a prescribed period of time. The standard text 
of this clause is as under: 
a) Neither party shall bear responsibility for the complete or partial non-performance 
of any of its obligations, if the non-performance results from such Force Majeure 
circumstances as Flood, Fire, Earth Quake and other acts of God as well as War, 
Military operations, blockade, Acts or Actions of State Authorities or any other 
circumstances beyond the parties control that have arisen after the conclusion of 
the present contract.  
b) In such circumstances the time stipulated for the performance of an obligation 
under the Contract is extended correspondingly for the period of time 
commensurate with actions or circumstances and their consequences.  
c) The party for which it becomes impossible to meet obligations under the Contract 
due to Force Majeure conditions, is to notify in written form to the other party of the 
beginning and cessation of the above circumstances immediately, but in any case 
not later than 10 (Ten) days from their commencement.  
d) Certificate of a Chamber of Commerce (Commerce and Industry) or other 
competent authority or organization of the respective country shall be considered 
as sufficient proof of commencement and cessation of the above circumstances.  
e) If the impossibility of complete or partial performance of an obligation lasts for more 
than 6 (six) months, either party hereto reserves the right to terminate the Contract 
totally or partially upon giving prior written notice of 30 (thirty) days to the other 
party of the intention to terminate without any liability other than reimbursement on 
the terms provided in the agreement for the goods received. 
7.3.13 Buy-Back : In case where Buyer is interested to trade the existing old goods while 106 
 purchasing the new ones, the appropriate provision shall be mentioned in the RFP. The 
standard text of this clause is as under:  
“The Buyer is interested to trade the existing old goods while purchasing the new ones. 
Bidders may formulate and submit their bids accordingly. Interested Bidders can 
inspect the old goods to be traded through this transaction. The Buyer reserves the 
right to trade or not to trade the old goods while purchasing the new ones and the 
Bidders are to frame their bids accordingly covering both the options. Details for buy-
back offer are as under:  
a) Details of Items for Buy-Back Scheme  – Make/ Model, Specs, Year of 
Production/ Purchase, Period of Warranty/ AMC etc.  
b) Place for Inspection of Old Items  – Address, Telephone, Fax, e-mail, Contact 
personnel, etc.  
c) Timings for Inspection  – All working days between the time of  ___ to _____.  
d) Last Date for Inspection  – 1 day before the last date of submission of bids.  
e) Period of Handing Over of Old Items to Successful Bidder  – Within ___ days of 
________________________ (No. of days and condition to be specified by the 
Lab) 
f) Handling charges and transportation expenses to take out the old items will be on 
account of the successful Bidder. 
7.3.14 Export License : RFP should specifically seek the details and format for end use 
certificate required by the Seller for obtaining export clearance. The standard text of 
this clause is as under:  
“The Bidder is required to furnish full details and formats of End Use Certificate 
required for obtaining export clearance from the country of origin. This information will 
be submitted along with Techno-Commercial bid. In the absence of such information, it 
would be deemed that no document is required from the Buyer for export clearance 
from the country of origin.”  
7.3.15 Free Issue of Material (FIM):   Wherever FIM is to be issued by the Buyer, the same 
should be clearly stated in the RFP along with the method of safeguarding the govt. 
property. Free Issue Material (FIM) to be safeguarded as per the provisions of para 
6.43.2 (c) and (d) of this Manual . The standard text of this clause is as under: 
The list of FIM are given below: (Lab has to provide the list as per the format given 
below) 