161 
 12.16 BID PROCESSING AND CONDUCT OF CNC: 
All other procedures e.g. bid opening, evaluation of techno-commercial bids, 
conducting of CNC etc., would be done as per the details given in Chapter 6 of this 
Manual. 
12.16.1 Bid Evaluation : In cases where infrastructure requirement for the developmental 
contract has been specified, TCEC will evaluate the feasibility/ verify the infrastructure 
details submitted by the firms in order to assess their manufacturing capability and 
genuine potential for developing the product/ component. 
12.17 BREAK UP OF QUOTED PRICE:  
The vendor should be asked to submit the detailed break-up of cost under the 
headings materials (indigenous/ imported, quantity, cost), labour (number of man 
hours, man hour rates, etc.), design and developmental, drawings and details of 
overheads which will be vetted by the user at the time of CNC. Where applicable, the 
last purchase price (LPP) of imported item or equivalent item may be taken as the 
base price to arrive at the reasonableness of the quoted rates. In case LPP is not 
available the base price will be arrived at by the process of benchmarking which will be 
done prior to opening of the commercial bid. L1 will be determined as per provisions of 
para 8.3 with reference to the developmental cost, including the cost of prototype and 
the total quantity for which the initial orders are to be placed. 
12.18 COST ESTIMATION: 
For all developmental contracts costing above Rs. 5 crore, Director of the Lab/Estt will 
constitute a separate Cost Estimation and Reasonability Committee (CERC) to 
estimate a reasonable cost of the proposed developmental/ fabrication work.  
Invariably user and finance reps would be members of this committee.  
12.19 PRE-REQUISITES FOR PLACING DEVELOPMENTAL/ FABRICATION CONTRACTS:   
The following steps will invariably be followed while entering into a developmental 
contract: 
a) Publication of EOI, where required. 
b) Vendor qualification criteria will be part of RFP.  
c) Non-Disclosure Agreement (NDA) will be signed. 
d) Pre-bid conference will be held if required. 
e) Cost estimate by CERC, as per para 12.18 of this Manual, to arrive at benchmark 162 
 price prior to conduct of C NC. 
f) The payment milestones/ stages will be defined unambiguously. 
g) Contract Monitoring Committee (CMC)/ Progress Review Committee (PRC) will 
be constituted as per the details given in para 12.22 of this Manual. 
12.20 SIGNING OF CONTRACT :  
The contract will be prepared as per MM Forms issued by DFMM and signed by both 
the parties after approval of CFA as per the provisions of Chapter 9 of this Manual. 
12.21 CONTRACT COMMENCEMENT AND COMPLETION DAT ES: 
Care should be taken to ensure that the date of contract commencement and the date 
of completion must be deterministic at any given point of time. Stages if any should 
have well defined time schedules and specific milestones.  
12.22 MONITORING PROGRESS AND MANAGEMENT OF CONTRACTS/ AGREEMENTS:  
12.22.1 Responsibility to monitor the progress and operation of the Developmental/ Fabrication 
contract will rest with the Lab/Estt that has concluded such contract. The Lab/Estt will 
provide necessary guidance to the development partner as required from time to time 
and will maintain close liaison with them to clarify any doubts during course of its 
execution. 
12.22.2 A Contract Monitoring Committee/ Progress Review Committee would be constituted by 
the Director of the Lab/Estt with a member from MMG & QAC and a senior member 
from other than user group. The committee would meet at least once in every quarter of 
the contract period to monitor the progress of development. In case the progress is not 
found satisfactory, committee would recommend suitable remedial measures. Where 
required, the committee may advise extension of contract period or short/ stage closure 
of the contract. 
12.22.3 The recommendations of the committee on changes would be put up to to the CFA.  
12.22.4 Any decision on cancellation of contract, stage or short closure of the contract would be 
taken by the CFA with concurrence of associated finance, if applicable. 
12.23 ACCESS TO CLASSIFIED DOCUMENTS/ SYSTEMS: 
The nature of activity for developmental task demands a comprehensive knowledge of 
the complete system/ documentation. Development partner will be allowed to access 
pertinent classified details/documentation in the interest of execution of task. 