136 
 g) The basic cost (excluding taxes & duties) of repeat order does not exceed the 
basic cost (excluding taxes & duties) of the original supply order. 
h) Quantity discount is sought from the vendor, if applicable. 
i) The taxes and duties as applicable on the date of placement of repeat order will 
be considered. 
j) RO clause would not be invoked for the quantity where the total value of supplies 
of original ordered quantity plus RO clause quantity requires convening of CNC in 
non- CNC cases.  
10.11.3 CFA for the RO :  
a) If proposal for RO emanates from the Lab/Estt which has placed the original 
order : CFA to be decided on cumulative basis (i.e. original cost, plus cost of ROs 
placed, if any, plus cost of the proposal). 
b) If proposal for RO emanates from the Lab/Estt. which has not placed the 
original order but both the Labs/Estts. are in same cluster : CFA to be decided 
on cumulative basis or DG (Cluster), whichever authority is higher. 
c) If proposal for RO emanates from the Lab/Estt. which has not placed the 
original order and the Labs/Estts are placed in different cluster:  Wherever the 
cumulative value  falls within the financial power delegated to DGs, DG (R&M) would 
accord approval. For other cases, CFA would be decided on cumulative basis or 
Secretary Defence (R&D) whichever authority is higher. Such cases will be 
forwarded to DF MM, DRDO HQrs for necessary action. 
10.12 SERVICE CONTRACTS: 
Service contracts would be entered to hire external professionals/ service provider s for 
specific jobs which are well defined in terms of content (scope) and time frame for its 
completion. These contracts would be regulated as per the procedures applicable for 
the procurement of stores in this Manual. Signing of contract should be ensured while 
hiring of services. The contract should have provision of performance evaluation at 
defined periodic interval with the condition that the contract would be terminated 
without cost in case of non-satisfactory performance. 
10.12.1 Extension of Service Contracts : 
Service contracts may be extended with the approval of appropriate CFA at same 
terms & conditions/ price (taxes/ statutory levies will be applicable as per the rate 
prevailing during the extended period), provided: 