45 
 premises of the Labs/Estts. The normal source of supply for the medicines is Armed 
Forces Medical Stores Depots (AFMSDs). The Labs/Estts will place their quarterly 
demands on the nearest AFMSD to ensure regular supply. 
a) In the event of non-materialization of normal supply through the AFMSD, 
Labs/Estts may resort to petty purchase of the medicines within their delegated 
petty purchase powers after obtaining Non-Availability Certificate (NAC) from 
AFMSD. Petty purchase may also be carried out to buy medicines to meet 
immediate requirements. NAC will not be insisted in such cases. Such purchases 
should be made from the authorized wholesale distributors of the manufacturers 
or through super bazaars/ co-operative stores/ stockists, etc. 
b) Medicines with appropriate shelf life will be bought in petty purchase.  
5.3 MINOR PURCHASE PROCEDURE: 
Purchase of goods/ services costing up to the amount specified under Rule 155 of 
GFR-2017 and as amended from time to time. (may be made on the recommendations 
of a duly constituted Local Purchase Committee (LPC) consisting of three members of 
an appropriate level as decided by the Director of Lab/Estt. The committee will survey 
the market to ascertain the reasonableness of rate, quality and specifications and 
identify the appropriate firm. Before recommending placement of the purchase order, 
the members of the committee will jointly record a certificate as under.  
 
"Certified that we ________________, members of the Local Purchase Committee 
(LPC) are jointly and individually satisfied that the goods/services recommended for 
purchase are of the requisite specification and quality, priced at the prevailing market 
rate and the firm recommended is reliable and competent to supply the goods/ services 
in question and it is not debarred by Department of Commerce or Ministry/Department 
concerned." 
5.3.1 CFA will ensure that splitting of demands is avoided and provisions of purchase 
preferences as per Public Procurement (Preference to Make in India), Order-2017 as 
amended, issued by DPIIT/ Ministry of Commerce and Industry are followed. 
5.3.2 Obtaining Quotations by LPC : CFA may direct the LPC, responsible for carrying out 
the market survey, to obtain quotations as a part of the market survey. Where no such 
direction has been given, it would be up to the LPC to decide whether or not to obtain 
quotations as part of documentation of market survey. In either case, details of the 
market survey (firms contacted and the rates quoted by them) would be recorded by 
the LPC. 46 
 5.3.3 After approval of LPC recommendations by CFA, supply order would be placed on 
selected firm. 
5.3.4 All relevant forms applicable for purchases with bidding process would be used in 
purchases through LPC. 
5.3.5 A separate record of such purchases for periodical review is advisable. 
5.4 EXPENSES ON TRIALS/ LAUNCH CAMPAIGN/ EXHIBITIONS AT OUTSTATION: 
Lab/Program/Project Director will estimate the provisional expenditure that may be 
incurred on outstation activities such as exhibitions, development trials of missiles, 
tanks, weapon systems, etc. and initiate the demand proposals for appropriate 
approvals. The procurement of goods/ services for the purpose would be as per the 
approval accorded. In such cases the amount required in cash would be drawn in 
advance. The goods/ services up to the amount specified under Rule 155 of GFR-2017 
and as amended from time to time , may be procured without bidding as per para 5.2 ( 
Petty Purchase procedure) or para 5.3 ( LPC procedure )  of this Manual, as applicable. 
No capital item would be procured through such approvals. CRV preparation, where 
required, would be completed for the purchased goods within 15 days after the 
completion of the event. 
5.5 PURCHASE OF GOODS THROUGH GEM: 
The Govt. of India has established Government e-Marketplace (GeM) for common use 
Goods and Services. The procurement of Goods and Services by Lab/Estt will be 
mandatory for Goods and Services available on GeM. The procurements through GeM 
portal are to be carried out as per provisions of Rule 149 of GFR- 2017 as amended.  
Such procurement would be governed by GeM guidelines and to that extent, the 
provisions of this Manual will not apply.   
5.6 PURCHASE OF GOODS UN DER RATE CONTRACT (REFERRAL ORDERS): 
Goods, for which MoD, SHQs and PSOs of SHQ (MGO, COL, AOM, DGIS etc.) has 
rate contracts, can be procured directly from the original Rate Contract holding firm.   
The original Rate Contract holding firm includes the authorized dealers/ distributors/ 
agents of the RC holding firm, provided the latter has pre-disclosed the names of these 
agents/ authorized dealers at various locations or the local stockist/ authorized dealers 
can substantiate their claim by producing a certificate from the RC holding firm to the 
effect that they are the firm‟s authorized stockist/  distributor/ agent/ dealer or can show 
an agency agreement between them as proof thereof. The purchase must be 
accompanied by a proper manufacturer certification. While resorting to such 