116 
 where there is suspicion of cartel formation. The justification and details of such 
negotiations should, however, be recorded and documented giving reasons for holding 
negotiations. Negotiations through a CNC should invariably be conducted in case of 
single source situations including PAC cases.  Negotiations may also have to be 
conducted in multi-bidder cases where the offered price is considered high with 
reference to the assessed reasonable price. CNC would record its recommendations 
regarding reasonableness of the price offered by the L1 bidder and the need for 
negotiation or otherwise with justification. In cases where a decision is taken to go for 
re-floating of RFP but the requirements are urgent, negotiations may be under taken 
with L1 bidder(s) for the supply of a bare minimum quantity in accordance with para 3 
of CVC instructions dated 3rd March 2006 (for latest guidelines issued by CVC in this 
regard, CVC website may be referred). 
8.5.3 Negotiation with L2 Bidder: If the bidder, whose bid has been found to be the lowest 
evaluated bid withdraws or whose bid has been accepted, fails to sign the procurement 
contract as may be required, or fails to provide the security as may be required for the 
performance of the contract or otherwise withdraws from the procurement process, the 
Procuring Entity shall cancel the procurement process. Provided that the Procuring 
Entity, on being satisfied that it is not a case of cartelization and the integrity of the 
procurement process has been maintained, may, for cogent reasons to be recorded in 
writing, offer the next successful bidder an opportunity to match the financial 
bid/negotiated price of the first successful bidder, and if the offer is accepted, award the 
contract to the next successful bidder at the financial bid/negotiated price of the first 
successful bidder, subject to compliance of following requirements : 
a) Reasonability of the price bid being established by the CNC  
b) The justification that there is no cartelization and the integrity of the procurement 
process has been maintained will be issued by the Director/Head of the Lab/Estt/ 
Procuring Entity 
c) Prior approval of DG Cluster (PMB for Appendix B of DFP)/ CFA (whichever is 
higher) is obtained before negotiating with L2. 
8.6 PRICE BENCH MARKING :  
Before scheduled negotiation, (wherever considered necessary), it would be advisable 
to work out the estimated reasonable rate or the benchmark, to judge acceptability of 
the L1 bidder based on available information. Benchmarking of price should be done 
before opening of the price bids to ensure complete objectivity and fairness and the 
fact that decision to negotiate or not itself depends upon such an assessment. Data 