197 
  
PRE-CONTRACT INTEGRITY PACT 
 
General  
 The pre-bid pre-contract Agreement (hereinafter called the Integrity Pact) is made on 
……………day of the month of ……………… Year, between, on one hand, the President of 
India acting through Shri ………………… , Designation of the officer, Ministry/Department, 
Government of India (hereinafter called the „BUYER‟, which expression shall mean and 
include, unless the context otherwise requires, his successors in office and assigns) of the 
First Part and M/s. ……………………  Represented by Shri. ………………… . Chief Executive 
Officer (hereinafter called the “BIDDER/Seller” which expression shall mean and include, 
unless the context otherwise requires, his successors and permitted assigns) of the Second 
Part. 
 
WHEREAS the BUYER proposes to procure (Name of the Stores/Equipment/ Item) and the 
BIDDER/Seller is willing to offer/has offered the stores and 
 
WHEREAS the BIDDER is a Private Company/Public Company/Government 
Undertaking/Partnership/Registered Export Agency, constituted in accordance with the 
relevant law in the matter and the BUYER is a Ministry/Department of the Government of 
India/PSU performing its functions on behalf of the President of India. 
 
NOW THEREFORE, 
To avoid all forms of corruption by following a system that is fair, transparent and free from 
any  influence/prejudiced dealings prior to, during and subsequent to the currency of the 
contract to be entered into with a view to:- 
 
Enabling the BUYER to obtain the desired said stores/equipment at a competitive price in 
conformity with the defined specifications by avoiding the high cost and the distortionary 
impact of corruption on public procurement, and 
 
Enabling BIDDERs to abstain from bribing or indulging in any corrupt practice in order to 
secure the contract  by providing assurance to them that their competitors  will also abstain 
from bribing and other corrupt practices and the BUYER will commit to prevent corruption, in 
any form, by its officials by following transparent procedures. 
 
The parties hereto hereby agree to enter into this Integrity Pact and agree as follows: 
 Annexure ‘ B’ 198 
 Commitments of the BUYER  
 
1.1 The BUYER undertakes that no official of the BUYER, connected directly or indirectly 
with the contract, will demand, take a promise for or accept, directly or through 
intermediaries, any bribe, consideration, gift, reward, favour or any material or 
immaterial benefit or any other advantage from the BIDDER, either for themselves or 
for any person, organisation or third party related to the contract in exchange for an 
advantage in the bidding process, bid evaluation, contracting or implementation 
process related to the contract. 
 
1.2 The BUYER will, during the pre-contract stage, treat all BIDDERs alike, and will 
provide to all BIDDERs the same information and will not provide any such 
information to any particular BIDDER which could afford an advantage to that 
particular BIDDER in comparison to other BIDDERS. 
1.3 All the officials of the BUYER will report to the appropriate Government office any 
attempted or completed breaches of the above commitments as well as any 
substantial suspicion of such a breach. 
 
2. In case any such preceding misconduct on the part of such official(s) is reported by 
the BIDDER to the BUYER with full and verifiable facts and the same is prima facie 
found to the correct by the BUYER., necessary disciplinary proceedings, or any other 
action as deemed fit, including criminal proceedings may be initiated by the BUYER 
and such a person shall be debarred from further dealings related to the contract 
process.  In such a case while an enquiry is being conducted by the BUYER the 
proceedings under the contract would not be stalled. 
 
Commitments of BIDDERS  
 
3. The BIDDER commits itself to take all measures necessary to prevent corrupt 
practices, unfair means and illegal activities during any stage of its bid or during any pre-
contract or post-contract stage in order to secure the contract or in furtherance to secure it 
and in particular commit itself to the following:- 
 
3.1 The BIDDER will not offer, directly or through intermediaries, any bribe, gift, 
consideration, reward, favour, any material or immaterial benefit or other advantage, 
commission, fees, brokerage or inducement to any official of the BUYER, connected 
directly or indirectly with the bidding process, or to any person, organisation or third 