113 
 (v) No price adjustment shall be payable on the portion of the payment made 
as an advance payment made in the Contract to the Seller.   
7.3.25 Intellectual Property Rights (IPR):  In case of Development Contract, RFP should 
clearly spell out the holder of IPR developed under the contract. The standard text of 
this clause is as under: 
“The rights of Intel lectual Property, developed under the Contract, will be either the 
property of Govt. of India or jointly owned by the Govt. of India and the Development 
Partner. The holding of rights of intellectual property will be decided by the Buyer 
based on the merits of the case. Even where IPR is jointly held, Govt. of India will have 
the marching rights on IPR, i.e., the Development Partner will have to give technical 
know-how/design data for production of the item to the designated Production Agency 
nominated by Govt. of India. The Development Partner will, however, be entitled to 
license fee / royalty from designated agency as per agreed terms and conditions. The 
Development Partner will also be entitled to use these intellectual properties for their 
own purposes, which specifically excludes sale or licensing to any third party.” 
  114 
 8 CHAPTER 8  
EVALUATION OF QUOTATIONS AND PRICE REASONABILITY 
8.1 INTRODUCTION: 
GFR 20 17 prescribes that every authority delegated with the financial powers of 
procuring goods in public interest shall have the responsibility and accountability to 
bring efficiency, economy and transparency in matters relating to public procurement 
and for fair and equitable treatment of firms and promotion of competition in public 
procurement. 
8.2 COMMERCIAL EVALUATION OF QUOTE: 
RFP is issued on the basis of the assessed cost as approved by the CFA. The next 
important stage is the commercial evaluation of the bids received in response to the 
RFP that are found technically compliant. These have to be evaluated to work out the 
financial implication of each offer. In order to ensure that all offers are compared in a 
fair & equitable manner and that the bidders are provided a level playing field, all 
elements of cost, including taxes and duties and terms and conditions with financial 
implications are to be taken into account. The evaluation criteria adopted for this 
purpose should be indicated in the RFP and the quotations should be ranked as per 
criteria indicated therein. In cases where RFP specifies Life Cycle Cost (LCC) as the 
criteria for the determination of successful bidder, AMC/ product support costs for the 
specified period beyond the original warranty period, will be loaded in CSB and taken 
into consideration for determining L1.  
8.3 BASIS OF COMPARISON OF COST :  
The comparison of the Bids would be done on the principle of the total cash outgo from 
Procuring Entity‟s pocket. The financial bids of the qualified bidde rs would be 
compared on the basis of total cost (FOR destination basis - consignment to Buyer‟s 
premises) of the deliverables and services  including statutory levies, taxes and duties 
on final product which are to be paid extra as per actuals. 
 
8.3.1 Total Cost for Indian bidders: All the cost of the deliverables (FOR destination basis 
– consignment to Buyer‟s premises) and services including statutory levies, taxes and 
duties on final product which are to be paid extra as per actuals. Custom Duty on input 
materials will not be loaded in their total cost, if such duties are exempted under 
existing Notifications.  
8.3.2 Total Cost for Foreign Bidders: All foreign bidders would be asked to quote on 