184 
 16.3.5 Advance payments made to the Seller, will be entered in the Advance Payment 
Register and submission of the adjustment/ final claims regulated with reference to this 
register. 
16.3.6 Lab/Estt will maintain a Register of Bank Guarantees furnished by the Seller to them. 
The records should be maintained with a designated officer who will periodically check 
their validity during currency of the contract/ supply order and advise extension as 
required. 
16.3.7 Payment against Time Barred Claims : Claims of Sellers preferred after 3 years are 
time barred by the Statute of Limitations. The time from which the limitations begin to 
run will generally be calculated from the date when the payment falls due/ from date of 
delivery and acceptance of goods, unless the payment claim has been under 
correspondence. Such time barred claims cannot be paid without the sanction of Govt.  
For claiming such an amount, the Seller has to make a request for special treatment to 
allow his payment and giving the justifications for such special treatment. The decision 
to accept or refuse such payments shall be taken by the Govt. on case to case basis. 
However, limitation is saved if the Seller has forwarded his initial claim within the time 
allowed and it had been under consideration with the Govt. during which time the claim 
may have been modified or corrected with the consent of the parties before it is 
admitted for payment. Such period of consideration will not be counted towards the 
period for limitations provided after such modifications or corrections the claim remains 
substantially the same. Time Barred claims will be sent to DFMM, DRDO HQ for 
necessary approval along with confirmation from concerned CDA (R&D)/ paying 
authority that payment has not been made. Thereafter, Lab/Estt will send a copy of the 
approved time barred sanction to the paying authority along with the claim of the Seller 
for payment. 
16.3.8 These provisions exclude the payment withheld due to non-compliance of terms and 
conditions of the contract by the Seller. 
16.4 LOST/ MISPLACED CHEQUES AND ISSUE OF FRESH CHEQUES :  
In the event of loss/ misplacement of cheque, the following procedure will be followed: 
(This procedure is not applicable in case of payment made through electronic mode.) 
16.4.1 The beneficiary must lodge a written complaint to the Lab/Estt regarding loss/ 
misplacement of the cheque issued in his favour and non-realization of payment 
against a legitimate supply/ service rendered by him within the validity period of the 
cheque. After expiry of validity period, the Lab/Estt will obtain a Non-Payment 
Certificate (NPC) from the bank stating that the cheque has not been honoured and no 