61 
 6.17.1 RFP should be vetted by Integrated Finance for the cases beyond delegated power of 
the Director of the Lab/Estt. 
6.18 DISPATCH OF RFP DOCUMENTS: 
6.18.1 RFP shall be dispatched as per the mode of bidding approved by the CFA. 
6.18.2 In LBM/ SBM / PBM, the copies of the RFP should be sent directly by speed post/ 
registered post (with AD)/ courier/ e-mail/ fax to firms which is/ are approved by the 
CFA for the goods/ services being procured. Copies of the RFP should also be sent by 
speed post/ registered post (with AD)/ courier to the firms to whom these were initially 
sent by fax/ e-mail.  
6.18.3 In case of dispatch of RFP on LBM by means other than speed post/ registered post 
with AD, it would be ensured to keep the proof of delivery in the file.  
6.18.4 In case of OBM, the RFP may be dispatched by speed post/ registered post/ courier to 
the firms after receipt of fee as per para 6.4.4 of this Manual. 
6.18.5 Simultaneously, e-publication of RFP on CPP portal will be ensured unless waiver from 
Secretary Defence (R&D) with the concurrence of Addl. FA (R&D) & JS for doing so 
has been taken .  
6.19 PRE-BID CONFERENCE: 
Pre-bid conference with the bidders will be held as per the date, time and venue 
specified in the RFP or as separately notified. After pre-bid conference, necessary 
clarifications (if any) to the RFP would be notified to all prospective bidders in case of 
RFPs not hosted on website and in other cases, it would be hosted on website. 
6.20 AMENDMENT TO THE RFP AND EXTENSION OF BID OPENING DATE: 
6.20.1 Amendment to the RFP : Situations may necessitate modification of the bidding 
document already issued due to change(s) in the required quantity or specifications/ 
conditions etc. Further, sometimes a bidder may point out some genuine mistake in the 
RFP necessitating amendment. In such cases, it may become necessary to amend/ 
modify the RFP suitably prior to the date of submission of bids. Change in the quantity 
affecting the CFA status would require approval of the appropriate CFA. 
6.20.2 Approval of Amendment : If there is no change in mode of bidding and no significant 
departure from functional parameters/ specifications, amendment to RFP would require 
approval of Director/ Program Director or else approval of CFA will be obtained . 
Concurrence of integrated finance would be taken in all cases except where 62 
 amendment is restricted to Part I of the RFP or where demand was approved without 
concurrence of integrated finance as per the delegated powers. 
a) Integrated Finance would recommend the amendment to the Director/ Program 
Director after analyzing the financial implications due to proposed amendments and 
would indicate any changes in the source or in the standard/ special terms and 
conditions. 
b) Director/ Program Director would take into account the recommendations of 
Integrated Finance, examine the justification given, essentiality of change and 
recommend/ approve the amendment.  
6.20.3 Methodology of Communicating Amendments in RFP : Copies of such amendment/ 
modification would be simultaneously sent to all the prospective bidders by registered 
post/ speed post/ courier/ e-mail in case of LBM / SBM / PBM. In case of OBM, copies of 
such amendments/ modifications would be dispatched simultaneously free of cost by 
registered/ speed post/ courier/ e-mail to all the parties who may have already 
purchased the RFPs and copies of such amendments are also required to be 
prominently attached to the unsol d bidding documents (which are available for sale), 
including the RFPs hosted on the website. Such amendment/ clarification would be 
hosted on website at least a week before the last date of submission of bids .  
6.21 EXTENSION OF BID SUBMISSION/ OPENING DATE: 
When the amendment/ modification changes the requirement significantly and/ or 
when sufficient time is not left for the bidders to submit/ revise their bids, the time and 
date of submission of bid should be extended suitably. Suitable changes in the 
corresponding time-frames for receipt of bids , bid validity period etc. and validity period 
of the corresponding EMD/ Bid security should also be made. Any extension of bid 
submission/ opening date, for whatever reason, shall be communicated to the 
prospective bidders as described in para 6.20.3 of this Manual. 
6.22 RECEIPT OF BIDS: 
6.22.1 A box, locked and sealed, will be placed at the security gate or any other secured 
convenient place in the Lab/Estt to facilitate uninhibited access to the bidders to drop 
their bids. This box will be removed from the place or made inaccessible to the vendors 
at the time of closing, as specified in the RFP. The key of the box will be kept in the 
personal custody of a responsible officer. Bids received through couriers/by post will be 
immediately put into the box without opening.  
6.22.2 The bids received from Indian bidders by fax/ e-mail, except in cases of PBM/ SBM will 