37 
 j) Comment on eligibility criteria for bidders as per Public Procurement (Preference 
to Make in India), Order-2017 as amended. 
k) Comment on proposed VQC and special terms and conditions. 
l) Comment on applicability of „Growth of Work‟. 
m) Comment on the requirement of Expenditure Sanction along with demand 
approval. 
4.7.3 Role and Responsibilities of Lab : On receipt of demand proposal, MMG will either 
issue the stores, if available in the central stores or from stores declared surplus in any 
other group/ division of the Lab, else endorse “Not Available (N/A)” and assign control/ 
reference number on demand and process the same for the approval of the Competent 
Financial Authority (CFA). Before putting up the proposal to CFA for approval, Lab/Estt 
would ensure following:   
a) Non-availability endorsement will be made for centrally stocked items. This 
endorsement is not required in case of service/maintenance contracts. 
b) Ascertain whether the indented stores are covered under the purchase/ price 
preference and product reservation policy issued by Govt. of India and DRDO 
HQrs as applicable and recommend suitable action. 
c) That demand has not been split to avoid sanction of higher CFA. 
d) Scrutinize the special terms and conditions in RFP. 
e) The eligibility criteria for bidders as per Public Procurement (Preference to Make 
in India), Order-2017 as amended has been followed. 
f) Explore the possibility of bulk purchase of common use items, PCs, spares for 
other standard equipment/ machinery to derive quantity discount. 
g) Endorse details of previous procurements, if any, in last three years including 
quantity and prices. 
h) Specify the registration status of proposed vendors in case of Single/ Limited/ 
PAC mode of bidding. 
i) Check the applicability of issue of GST Exemption and/or Custom Duty 
Exemption for the proposed procurement. Further, if CDEC is proposed to be 
issued, applicable para and/or sub para number of the relevant notification would 
be indicated. 38 
 j) In case of PAC mode of bidding, concurrence of finance on PAC certificate would 
be taken for cases where financial concurrence is otherwise not required for 
demand approval.  
k) Record consolidated values of expenditure booked, commitments entered and 
cases in the pipeline for procurement in sanctioned project. 
l)  Ensure availability of funds in relevant budget head at the time of expected cash 
outgo. 
m) Fix an amount for EMD between 2% to 5% of the estimated cost.   
n) Fix a percentage for Performance Security Bond as per para 6.43.2(a), which 
would be taken from the successful bidder. 
o) Scrutinize the estimated cost of the proposal. 
p) Scrutinize the requirement of „Growth of Work‟ if proposed .  
q) Recommend the requirement of Expenditure Sanction on cost not exceeding 
basis, subject to compliance of terms and conditions of the RFP, along with 
demand approval 
r)  Check whether CNC is required to be convened per para 8.5.1 for COTS items/ 
certain services etc. If CNC is not envisaged, same should be explicitly brought to 
the notice of CFA at the time of demand approval .     
4.7.4 Head of the Lab/Estt will satisfy himself about the roles and responsibilities of the Lab 
as given above and sign or countersign the check-list as given in Part-II of 
DRDO.DM. 01.  
4.7.5 Head of the Lab/Estt may decide suitable procedure to process demand for approval 
but the adopted procedure must ensure compliance of above stated points .  
4.8 PROCESSING FOR DEMAND APPROVAL BY CFA: 
Demand for approval of CFA will be processed under following categories:  
4.8.1 Programs with Financially Empowered Boards : Specific projects/ programs, where 
special sanctioning powers have been delegated to various management boards like 
PJB, PMB and Apex Board, the proposed demands will be put up to the Standing 
Committees of the respective management boards for approval as per the delegation of 
financial powers. In such cases, Standing Committee of concerned board will endorse 
compliance of roles and responsibilities of the Lab/Estt as stated in para 4.7.3 of this 
Manual. Approvals accorded by Standing Committee will be ratified by the concern ed 