183 
 on CRV/ IR should exactly correspond to those shown in the supply order/ 
contract and the contractor's bill. Rates and total value of all items should be 
shown in the CRV/ IR.   
i) Receipted copy of the delivery challan is enclosed with the bill. 
j) In case of advance payments, Bank Guarantee/ Indemnity Bond or equivalent 
bond is enclosed.  
k) The arithmetical accuracy of the bills will be thoroughly checked before payment. 
l) Deductions will be made from the bills on account of demurrage/ wharfage paid 
by Lab/Estt on consignments due to late receipt of RR/ LR (Railway Receipt/ 
Lorry Receipt). 
m) Income tax will be deducted as applicable. 
16.3.1 Time Schedule for Clearance of Bills : Expeditious processing of bills, after 
acceptance of stores, is essential to ensure the payment to the Seller within the 
prescribed time limit to avoid legal implication leading to payment of penal interest on 
delayed payments. For this purpose, Labs/Estts will issue local orders fixing time 
schedules for completion of inspection, accounting and submission of bills for release 
of payment to the paying authority. 
16.3.2 The bills for accepted stores along with documents as prescribed in para 16.2.2 of this 
Manual will be forwarded by Lab/Estt (MMG) to Finance Section handling cash 
assignment or local CDA (R&D)/ paying authority for payment. On the receipt of the 
cheque slip/ intimation from the paying authority, ECS payment details or the cheque 
number, date and amount will be entered in the bill register and cheque slip inserted in 
the purchase file. 
16.3.3 Balance Payment : In case of payments made from cash assignment, necessary 
entries in this regard will be made in the progress register. All payments (up to 90% or 
95%) shall be entered in the progress register. The bills for the balance (10% or 5%) 
payments to the Seller shall be submitted with supporting documents as applicable to 
local CDA (R&D)/ paying authority for settlement.  
16.3.4 Adjustment of Advances : All advances given to the Seller will be adjusted against the 
intermediate milestone payments or in any case against the final stage payment due to 
the Seller within six months from the date of receipt of stores/ completion of milestone/ 
service.   184 
 16.3.5 Advance payments made to the Seller, will be entered in the Advance Payment 
Register and submission of the adjustment/ final claims regulated with reference to this 
register. 
16.3.6 Lab/Estt will maintain a Register of Bank Guarantees furnished by the Seller to them. 
The records should be maintained with a designated officer who will periodically check 
their validity during currency of the contract/ supply order and advise extension as 
required. 
16.3.7 Payment against Time Barred Claims : Claims of Sellers preferred after 3 years are 
time barred by the Statute of Limitations. The time from which the limitations begin to 
run will generally be calculated from the date when the payment falls due/ from date of 
delivery and acceptance of goods, unless the payment claim has been under 
correspondence. Such time barred claims cannot be paid without the sanction of Govt.  
For claiming such an amount, the Seller has to make a request for special treatment to 
allow his payment and giving the justifications for such special treatment. The decision 
to accept or refuse such payments shall be taken by the Govt. on case to case basis. 
However, limitation is saved if the Seller has forwarded his initial claim within the time 
allowed and it had been under consideration with the Govt. during which time the claim 
may have been modified or corrected with the consent of the parties before it is 
admitted for payment. Such period of consideration will not be counted towards the 
period for limitations provided after such modifications or corrections the claim remains 
substantially the same. Time Barred claims will be sent to DFMM, DRDO HQ for 
necessary approval along with confirmation from concerned CDA (R&D)/ paying 
authority that payment has not been made. Thereafter, Lab/Estt will send a copy of the 
approved time barred sanction to the paying authority along with the claim of the Seller 
for payment. 
16.3.8 These provisions exclude the payment withheld due to non-compliance of terms and 
conditions of the contract by the Seller. 
16.4 LOST/ MISPLACED CHEQUES AND ISSUE OF FRESH CHEQUES :  
In the event of loss/ misplacement of cheque, the following procedure will be followed: 
(This procedure is not applicable in case of payment made through electronic mode.) 
16.4.1 The beneficiary must lodge a written complaint to the Lab/Estt regarding loss/ 
misplacement of the cheque issued in his favour and non-realization of payment 
against a legitimate supply/ service rendered by him within the validity period of the 
cheque. After expiry of validity period, the Lab/Estt will obtain a Non-Payment 
Certificate (NPC) from the bank stating that the cheque has not been honoured and no 