146 
 11.11.3 Payment of Training, Installation & Commissioning and AMC Charges : Payment 
for these services should be released after completion of service preferably through 
DBT. 
11.12 INSURANCE COVERAGE: 
The transit insurance coverage will invariably be taken for all procurements on  
Ex-Works/ FCA/ FOB/ CPT/ CFR basis. Air Consolidation Agency (ACA) contract of 
DRDO has provision of mandatory insurance cover for all imports. For destinations not 
covered under ACA Contract or where Labs/Estts is not using the facility of ACA 
contract for whatever reasons, transit insurance coverage will be taken through a 
nationalized insurance agency or their subsidiaries for all imports .  
11.13 SHIPPING AND AIR-FREIGHTING: 
The consignment will be dispatched by the foreign Sellers as per the shipping 
instructions contained in the supply order/ contract. 
11.13.1 Where the mode of transportation of shipment is by sea, the Lab/Estt will follow the 
shipping instructions issued by the Ministry of Shipping & Transport, Parivahan 
Bhawan, Sansad Marg, New Delhi – 110 001. 
11.13.2 For dispatch of consignments by air, the Labs/Estts will follow the instructions given as 
in the ACA Contract concluded by DFMM .  
11.13.3 Cases of direct shipment are to be avoided. However in exceptional cases of direct 
shipment, the Labs/Estts may make suitable arrangement for completing other 
formalities like customs clearance, etc. The services of ACA/ Embarkation HQ may be 
availed after finalizing the terms. 
11.14 CUSTOMS CLEARANCE: 
Government has exempted certain imports made by DRDO from payment of Customs 
Duty through notifications issued from time to time. These benefits will be availed by 
the Labs/Estts on imports by issuing necessary Custom Duty Exemption Certificates 
(CDEC) as per prescribed formats.  
11.14.1 Direct Imports : Direct import implies that Lab/Estt is importing directly from foreign 
Seller. Every financial year, DRDO HQ may authorize one/more officer(s) not below the 
rank of Deputy secretary as nominated by Lab/Estt through a certificate signed by CC 
R&D (R) /DG (R&M) to issue CDECs for all direct imports under custom notification 
51/96 as amended . In addition, direct import by DRDO Labs/ Estts/Programmes is also 
covered under custom notification 39/96 as amended. Govt. may impose custom duty 