47 
 procurement, it should be ensured that the prices to be paid for the goods do not 
exceed those stipulated in the RC and the other salient terms and conditions of the 
purchase are in line with the terms and conditions as specified in the contract except 
for payment by paying authority. The Buyer should also make its own arrangement for 
inspection and testing of such goods, where required. CFA will be determined as per 
para 4.6.5 (c) of this Manual. Payment in such cases would be made by the concerned 
CDA (R&D), their subordinate offices or other paying authorities as per the existing 
arrangement. 
5.7 PROCUREMENT FROM GOVT. DESIGNATED AGENCI ES: 
The following categories of items may be procured directly from Govt. designated 
agencies as per the procedures mandated by them: 
a) Restricted items of supply. 
b) In cases where Labs/Estts find it convenient to meet their requirement for certain 
items through inter-service channels. 
c) Where specific Government instructions exist to procure certain items only 
through inter-service channels, e.g., standard MT vehicles, FOL, medical 
supplies, other ASC/ Military Farm supplies/ Ordnance Depot items. 
5.7.1 Procedure for Procurement : For such items, CFA will be determined as per 
delegation of financial powers for competitive bidding. The following process shall be 
adopted for procurement of stores from the Services Depots/ Ordnance Factories, etc: 
a) The requirement will be based on standard scales or on actual requirements, duly 
approved by CFA. 
b) The demand will be prepared in proper form duly signed by an authorized officer 
and submitted to Service Depots/ Ordnance Factories. 
c) Controlled/ Census category of stores contained in the master list of controlled/ 
Census stores for the Army and equivalent publications in the Navy/ Air Force, 
will not be demanded by the Labs/Estts directly from the Services Depots but got 
released from the respective service HQ through DRDO HQ by submitting proper 
statement of case justifying the necessity. 
5.7.2 Ordnance Factories : Certain stores peculiar to Ordnance Factories (OFs), either 
stocked by them or manufactured by them, shall be procured from the factories after 
approval of CFA in the under-mentioned manner. Such indents would be placed directly 
on OFs without the need to issue any RFP. The CFA would be determined as per 48 
 delegation of financial powers for competitive bidding. 
a) Factory Stocked Stores (FSS):  Demands for such items shall be raised directly 
on Factories concerned, with a copy to Ordnance Factories Board (OFB). 
b) Factory Manufactured Stores (FMS):  Such items shall be procured by raising 
Syllabus Work Order Demand (SWOD) on OFB with copies to concerned Factory 
and their respective Accounts Offic e. 
c) New Items/ Stores/ Fabrication Work:  Labs/Estts may place supply 
orders/contracts after negotiating the price and other terms. Issue of formal RFP 
would not be mandatory. 
5.8 ACCOUNTING OF PURCHA SES:  
Copies of all demands placed on OFB, Govt. designated Agencies, etc., where 
payment is effected through book adjustment, will be endorsed to the Accounting Cell 
of the Lab/Estt. Labs/Estts will send a monthly report of new commitments made with 
payment details, if any, to DFMM, DRDO HQ. 
  