203 
 6.2 The BUYER will be entitled to take all or any of the actions mentioned at para 6.1(i) 
to (x) of this Pact also on the Commission by the BIDDER or any one employed by it 
or acting on its behalf (whether with or without the knowledge of the BIDDER), of an 
offence as defined in Chapter IX of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 or Prevention of 
Corruption Act, 1988 or any other statute enacted for prevention of corruption. 
 
6.3 The decision of the BUYER to the effect that a breach of the provisions of this Pact 
has been committed by the BIDDER shall be final and conclusive on the BIDDER.  
However, the BIDDER can approach the independent Monitor(s) appointed for the 
purposes of this Pact. 
 
7. Fall Clause  
 
7.1 The Bidder undertakes that it has not supplied/is not supplying similar 
product/systems or subsystems at a price lower than that offered in the present bid in 
respect of any other Ministry/Department of the Government of India or PSU and if it 
is found at any stage that similar product/systems or sub systems was supplied by 
the BIDDER to any other Ministry/Department of the Government of India or a PSU 
at a lower price, then that very price, with due allowance for elapsed time, will be 
applicable to the present case and the difference in the cost would be refunded by 
the BIDDER to the BUYER, if the contract has already been concluded. 
 
8. Independent Monitors  
 
8.1 The BUYER has appointed Independent Monitors (hereinafter referred to as 
Monitors) for this Pact in consultation with the Central Vigilance Commission (Names 
and Addresses of the Monitors to be given). 
 
8.2 The task of the Monitors shall be to review independently and objectively, whether 
and to what extent the parties comply with the obligations under this Pact. 
 
8.3 The Monitors shall not be subject to instructions by the representatives of the parties 
and perform their functions neutrally and indep endently. 
 
8.4 Both the parties accept that Monitors have the right to access all the documents 
relating to the project/procurement, including minutes of meetings. 
 
8.5 As soon as the Monitor notices, or has reason to believe, a violation of this Pact, he 
will so inform the Authority designated by the BUYER. 204 
  
8.6 The BIDDER(s) accepts that the Monitor has the right to access without restriction to 
all Project documentation of the BUYER including that provided by the BIDDER.  The 
BIDDER will also grant the Monitor, upon his request and demonstration of a valid 
interest, unrestricted and unconditional access to his project documentation.  The 
same is applicable to Subcontractors. The Monitor shall be under contractual 
obligation to treat the information and documents of the BIDDER/Subcontractor(s) 
with confidentiality. 
 
8.7 The BUYER will provide to the Monitor sufficient information about all meetings 
among the parties related to the Project provided such meetings could have an 
impact on the contractual relations between the parties.  The parties will offer to the 
Monitor the option to participate in such meetings. 
8.8. The Monitor will submit a written report to the designated Authority of 
BUYER/Secretary in the Departmen t/within 8 to 10 weeks from the date of reference 
or intimation to him by the BUYER/BIDDER and should the occasion arise, submit 
proposal for correcting problematic situations. 
 
9. Facilitation of Investigation  
 
 In case of any allegation of violation of any provisions of this Pact or payment of 
commission, the BUYER or its agencies shall be entitled to examine all the 
documents including the Books of Accounts of the BIDDER and the BIDDER shall 
provide necessary information and documents in English and shall extend all 
possible help for the purpose of such examination. 
 
10. Law and Place of Jurisdiction  
 
This pact is subject to Indian Law.  The place of performance and jurisdiction is the 
seat of the BUYER. 
 
11. Other Legal Action  
 
The actions stipulated in this Integrity Pact are without prejudice to any other legal 
action that may follow in accordance with the provisions of the extant law in force 
relating to any civil or criminal proceedings. 
 
 