29 
 4 CHAPTER 4  
DEMAND INITIATION AND APPROVAL  
4.1 DETERMINATION OF NEE D: 
In every case of procurement, the Buyer shall first determine the need (including 
anticipated requirement). While assessing the need the Buyer, to the extent possible, 
shall take into account the estimated cost of the procurement and shall also decide on 
the following matters, namely: 
a) The scope and quantity of procurement; 
b) Limitation on participation of bidders with justification; 
c) The mode of bidding with justification; 
d) Need for pre-qualification, if any; 
e) Any other matter as may be required. 
4.2 CLASSIFICATION OF DEMANDS: 
The demands for procurement are generally classified in following categories: 
a) Procurement of goods and services; 
b) Placement of design development and fabrication contracts (covered in Chapter 
12 of this Manual); 
c) Procurement of books and periodicals for library (covered in Chapter 13 of this 
Manual ); 
d)  Outsourcing of services (covered in Chapter 14 of this Manual) .  30 
 4.3 FORMULATION OF SPECIFICATIONS:  
The most important step in any procurement is drawing up of the specifications that 
meet the requirement. With the increasing complexity of the projects, the materials and 
equipment needs have also become exacting, requiring professional skill in drawing up 
the specifications. Detailed specifications supported by drawings and by specifying 
standard units of measure in the Request For Proposal (RFP) will eliminate ambiguity. 
It will also minimize apprehension of bidders on the level of risks they are expected to 
bear and elucidate precise standards to which the commodity under purchase will be 
tested/ inspected. This will also reduce chances of bidders inflating their prices to cover 
perceived risks. 
4.3.1 Unambiguous and detailed specifications help in methodical evaluation of bids by 
assigning percentage marks to each individual attribute and establish a viable techno-
commercial link between performance/ quality standards and costs for fair and 
equitable price assessment/ comparison. 
4.3.2 The Buyer will observe adequate caution and set up a mechanism to ensure that 
detailed specifications of an intended procurement are not tailor made to suit a 
particular brand of product. Broad coverage of the functional performance and 
environmental parameters will be spelt out in the specifications to allow competition. 
4.3.3 While drawing specifications, we should ensure that it meets essential needs, it is 
objective, functional and it sets out required technical / qualitative performance 
characteristics. It should not indicate a requirement for a particular trademark/ brand. 
To the extent possible, the specifications should be based on national or international 
standards. 
4.3.4 In case of lack of information while working out specifications, the Buyer may resort to 
any of the methods given below: 
a) Drawing the broad performance/ environmental parameters from the product 
catalogues of reputed manufacturers. Detailed technical specifications may be 
sought from different vendors through enquiries made verbally or official 
correspondence or press notification by inviting Expression of Interest (EOI)/ 
Request for Information (RFI). 
b) Seek expert advice from academic institutions and other scientific organizations 
having specialized knowledge and expertise.  
c) Assignment of contracts to suitable professional agencies/ consultants for 
drawing up of detailed specifications and evaluation parameters. 