158 
 production cost should not be more than prototype cost (as per developmental contract) 
after offsetting inflation. Sometimes, it is seen that firms undercut/ offer discount to 
become L1 in the developmental phase and later jack up prices during the production 
phase. Care should be taken by the CFA on the merit of the case to safeguard Govt. 
interest. 
12.10 PROCESSING OF DEVELOPMENTAL CONTRACT: 
Some of the important steps involved in the processing of developmental contract are 
as follows: 
a) Firming up of vendor qualification criteria 
b) Framing and Issue of RFP 
c) Techno-commercial Evaluation of bids and convening of C NC 
d) Placement of Contract/ Supply Order 
e) Post Contract Management 
12.11 INITIATION & APPROVAL OF DEMANDS:  
Procedure for initiation and approval of demands for developmental/ fabrication 
contracts will be as per Chapter 4 of this Manual. There would be no requirement of 
“Performance Security” for the “Development Contracts” entered into by DRDO. This 
will apply to “Development Contracts” only, as defined in Para 12.5 above. However, 
Warranty Bond would continue to be obtained from successful development partner to 
cover the DRDO interest during the warranty period. 
12.12 FIRMING UP OF VENDOR QUALIFICATION CRITERIA: 
Identification of appropriate vendors is a vital step and must be well considered. 
Labs/Estts may use EOI route for firming up of vendor qualification criteria to find a 
suitable developmental partner(s) as per procedure mentioned hereunder. 
12.12.1 For identifying firms willing to participate as developmental partner in respect of 
different categories/ products/ components, notice inviting Expression of Interest (EOI) 
to be published on Central Public Procurement Portal (CPP-Portal) and DRDO Website 
only. A notice calling for EOI/RFI will be issued/ published with “in -principle” approval of 
CFA / DG Cluster (whichever authority is lower). The minimum number of products/ 
components required to be submitted by the vendor for evaluation and likely demand 
for those products/ components for the next two to three years after development may 
be indicated, if feasible, in th e EOI. The attention of known prospective development 
partner(s) will also be drawn towards EOI/RFI. 