63 
 not be accepted. However, for imported items, the bids received from foreign bidders 
by fax/ e-mail may be considered if the same are received before expiry of the notified 
date and time. In such cases, bids received in the Director‟s office may be kept in his 
personal custody and placed before bid opening committee. 
6.22.3 Bid Opening Committee (BOC) will collect all the bids from the box and other places 
e.g. central dak receipt section, etc. at the appointed time of closing of bids. 
6.22.4 Withdrawal of an Offer or Proposal : A bidder may modify or withdraw his bid after 
submission provided written notice for modification/ withdrawal is received prior to the 
deadline prescribed for submission of bids. No bid may be withdrawn or modified in the 
interval between the deadline for submission of bid and expiration of the period of bid 
validity specified. Withdrawal of bid during this period will result in forfeiture of EMD or 
action will be taken as per para 6.10.8 as applicable. If bid is withdrawn by the agency 
exempted from submission of EMD, the registering authority will be intimated. 
6.23 LATE BID: 
All bids or modifications received thereto, beyond the due date and time of submission 
of bid, shall be marked as „Late‟ and will not be considered. These bids would be 
returned to the respective bidders unopened. 
6.24 SCRAPPING OF BIDDING PROCESS: 
Scrapping of bidding process may be resorted to with the approval of the Director 
under intimation to the CFA in the following circumstances: 
a) Cancellation of the demand by the user. 
b) Change in basic specifications of stores. 
c) Non-receipt of offers as per specifications laid down. 
d) Sudden downward market trend. 
e) Prices quoted being very high/ unreasonable. 
f) Large/ manifold variation in prices quoted by bidders etc. 
6.25 OPENING OF BIDS AND EVALUATION: 
In case of e-Procurement, Bids ( both techno-commercial and Financial Bids) would be 
opened  as per the extant procedures of the e-procurement portal. Offline Bids will be 
opened by Bid Opening Committee constituted as under: 
6.25.1 Bid Opening Committee (BOC) : Director of Lab/Estt will nominate officials of BOC as 
per following constitution for opening of bids on the date and time specified in the RFP: 64 
 Sc. „C‟/ TO „C‟ or above  Chairman  
Vigilance/Security Officer or his rep  Member  
Duty Officer of the day  Member  
MMG rep  Member Secretary  
Any two of the committee members besides Chairman may open the bids. 
6.25.2 Role of BOC : BOC will identify and categorize the bids received as under : 
a) Single Bid System:  
(i) For non-CNC cases:  Bids will be opened by BOC and handed over to 
MMG for preparation of Comparative Statement of Bids ( CSB) as per para 
6.32 of this Manual. 
(ii) For CNC cases:  Bids will not be opened by the BOC. Such bids will be 
handed over to MMG for safe keeping till they are opened by the C NC and 
bidders would be informed in advance.  
b) Two Bid System:  BOC will open techno-commercial bids only and hand it over to 
MMG for techno-commercial evaluation by the TCEC. Price bids will not be opened 
by BOC and the same will be handed over to MMG in a separate cover, sealed and 
signed by BOC for further action. 
6.26 BID OPENING PROCEDURE:  
6.26.1 Prior to the date and time of bid opening, BOC will ensure that all bids received in time 
are available for its consideration.  
6.26.2 All relevant bids received on time should be opened by the BOC in the presence of 
authorized representatives of the bidders at the time, date and place prescribed in the 
RFP. The authorized representatives, who intend to attend the bid opening event , 
would be required to bring with them letters of authority from the concerned bidders.  
6.26.3 BOC should announce the salient features, as applicable, of all opened bids like 
description and specification of stores, quoted price, terms of delivery, delivery period, 
discount if any, whether EMD furnished or not and any other special feature of the bids 
for the information of the representatives attending the bid opening event. 
6.26.4 After opening of bids, every bid should be numbered serially, initialed with date on the 
first page by the officials of the BOC. Each page of the price bid or letter attached to it 