138 
 action of these circumstances and their consequences. 
10.13.4 Right to Terminate Supply Order/ Contract:  If the impossibility to complete or partial 
performance of an obligation lasts for more than six months, either party to the supply 
order/ contract reserves the right to terminate the supply order/ contract totally or 
partially upon giving prior written notice of thirty days to the other party of the intention 
to terminate without any liability, other than reimbursement on the terms provided in the 
supply order/ contract for the goods received.  
10.14 DISPUTES/ ARBITRATION: 
All the clauses, terms and conditions of the contract/ supply order will be explicit and 
unambiguous to avoid disputes. If case of dispute, the action will be taken in 
accordance with the dispute resolution or arbitration clause as incorporated in the 
supply order/ contract. 
10.15 TERMINATION OF SUPPLY ORDER/ CONTRACT FOR DEFAULT: 
10.15.1 The Buyer may, without prejudice to any other remedy for breach of supply order/ 
contract, by written notice of default sent to the Seller, terminate the supply order/ 
contract in whole or in part if: 
a) The Seller fails to deliver any or all of the stores or perform any other obligation 
within the time period(s) specified in the supply order/ contract, or any extension 
thereof granted by the Lab/Estt. 
b) When the Seller is found to have made any false or fraudulent declaration or 
statement to get the supply order/ contract or he is found to be indulging in 
unethical or unfair trade practices. 
c) When the item offered by the Seller repeatedly fails in the inspection and/or the 
Seller is not in a position to either rectify the defects or offer items conforming to 
the contracted quality standards. 
d) When both parties mutually agree to terminate the supply order/ contract. 
e) Any special circumstances, which must be recorded to justify the termination of a 
supply order/ contract. 
f) In pursuance of an award given by a Court of Law. 
10.15.2 If the supply order/ contract is terminated in whole or in part; the Lab/Estt may take any 
one or more of the following actions: 