153 
 principles may, however, be followed :  
a) Exploration of sources in the public and private sector should be as wide as 
possible before placement of development order to encourage competition.  
b) Ability of the Development Partner to execute work of the desired quality in the 
required time schedule should be evaluated and verified by the Techno 
Commercial Evaluation Committee.  
c) Development contracts should preferably be concluded with two or more partners 
in parallel, subject to the other bidder(s) agreeing to match the negotiated price 
and conditions of L1, else, the full order may be placed on the L1 firm. Placement 
of parallel contracts on two parties is desirable to have more than one source of 
supply at bulk production stage. Besides, it also increases the probability of 
successful completion of the developmental work in time. The ratio of splitting of 
the proposed quantity between bidders and criteria thereof must be mentioned in 
the RFP. Ratio of splitting would be preferably in favour of L1. 
d) If requirement is meager or sources are limited or proposal is not considered cost 
effective, a single source having expertise in the requisite field may be 
considered with appropriate justification and approval of the CFA. 
e) The ability of the firm to take up bulk production should be borne in mind while 
exploring the sources for contracts which are likely to lead to large scale 
production. 
f) For assigning development/fabrication task, the information available with DGQA, 
other DRDO Labs/Estts and Scientific Depts. may also be utilized to select 
appropriate partner. The selected firm should have the capacity and capability to 
undertake development and bulk production, even if it entails setting up of a 
separate production line, provided their policies do not forbid them from such 
commitments. Where bulk production is envisaged after design and development 
by DRDO, association of a suitable production agency may be considered during 
design and pre-production phases. 
g) The RFP document would be issued free of cost. The facility to use testing/ 
infrastructure facilities available in DRDO Labs may be extended to development 
partner(s) as per mutually agreed terms on case to case basis. Labs would 
decide the same and it would be reflected in the RFP. However, the anticipated 
cost of such usage would be indicated in the proposal to CFA to determine the 
cost of development. 154 
 h) Free Issue Material (FIM) to be used as raw material for use in 
developmental/fabrication contract, would be safeguarded as per the provisions 
of para 6.43.2 (c) and 7.3. 15 of this Manual .  
12.3 INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS (IPR):  
The IPR developed under a developmental contract, funded by DRDO, will be the 
property of Govt. of India. In such cases, the firm will provide technical know-how/ 
design data for production of the item to the designated production agency nominated 
by the DRDO. It will, however, be permitted to receive, upon demand, a royalty free 
license to use these intellectual properties for its own purposes, which specifically 
excludes sale or licensing to any third party. 
12.3.1 Joint IP Rights : In case of design, development and fabrication of capital equipment of 
general nature where no design and development input is provided and only broad 
specifications are given by the DRDO Lab/Estt, and/or the developer is sharing the 
developmental cost, joint IP rights would be considered.  
12.3.2 Even where joint IP rights are accepted, DRDO/ MOD/ GOI reserves the right to 
develop an alternate source. In such cases it would be mandatory for the developer to 
transfer the know-how of the product to the agency designated by DRDO. However, in 
such cases development partner would be entitled to receive license fee/ royalty as per 
mutually agreed terms.  
12.4 TYPES OF CONTRACTS:  
a) Developmental Contract 
b) Fabrication Contract 
12.5 DEVELOPMENTAL CONTRA CT: 
Developmental contract is concluded for the development of an item as per given 
design and specifications by DRDO for producing a specified quantity by the selected 
development partner. These contracts may subsequently lead to placement of 
fabrication/production contracts with unit production cost worked out based on 
successful completion of the contract. 
12.5.1 Developmental contracts are concluded to cover the following contingencies. 
a) Where the industrially engineered models are to be developed by the contractor 
based on the complete design data already evolved in the DRDO Lab/Estt during 
design and development of a laboratory prototype. In such contracts, the 
development would be based on the preliminary design/ technical specifications, 
drawings and other information provided by DRDO Lab/Estt. The contractor will, 