77 
 be included in the initial price-negotiations by the CNC to seek price concession. 
However, it will not be included in determination of L1 unless the evaluation criteria in 
RFP are based on Life Cycle Cost of the product. 
6.43.2 When negotiations are considered necessary, only the firm with the lowest acceptable 
bid as per evaluation criteria will be called for negotiations by CNC . The following points 
may be borne in mind while negotiating: 
a) Performance Security Bond: To ensure due performance of the contract except 
the ones related to post acceptance, Performance Security Bonds are to be 
obtained from the successful bidder(s) awarded the contract irrespective of its 
registration status. Performance Security Bond should be for an amount equal to 
five to ten percent of the contract value. In case the execution of the contract is 
delayed beyond the contracted period and the Buyer grants the extension of 
delivery period, with or without liquidated damages, the Seller must get the 
Performance Security Bond revalidated, if not already valid. In case of Indian 
bidder, Performance Security Bond may be accepted in the form of Bank Draft, 
Fixed Deposit Receipt or a Bank Guarantee. For foreign bidders, they may be 
accepted in the form of Bank Guarantee or Stand-by Letter of Credit. They should 
remain valid for a period of sixty days beyond the date of completion of all 
contractual obligations except the ones related to post acceptance. 
 Amount of Performance Security Bond for Service contract: For Hygiene, 
security contracts, fire-fighting, arboriculture and conservancy and other support 
services involving manpower contracts would be calculated on the payment due 
to the vendor (inclusive of taxes and duties) on agreed payment cycle in the 
S.O/Contract. 
 There would be no requirement of performance security bond for procurements 
up to threshold limit Rs. 10 lakh for COTS / common use items or branded 
commercial products, which are to be accepted on the manufa cturer‟s guarantee.  
b) Warranty Bond: To cover the Buyer‟s interest during warrany peiod, warranty 
Bond for an amount of 10 percent of the contract value would be obtained from the 
seller prior to return of performance security bond.  In case of Indian bidder, 
Warranty Bonds may be accepted in the form of Bank Draft, Fixed Deposit Receipt 
or a Bank Guarantee. For foreign bidders, It may be accepted in the form of Bank 
Guarantee or Stand-by Letter of Credit. It should remain valid for a period of sixty 
days beyond the date of completion of all warranty obligations. Warranty Bond 
would be returned to the Seller on successful completion of warranty obligations, 78 
 under the contract. 
c) Free Issue of Material (FIM) as Raw Material:  Lab/Estt will analyze the 
availability/ source of supply of the FIM and the time frame etc. before accepting 
any terms related to it. Whenever FIM is to be issued to the supplier as raw 
material, comprehensive  insurance cover (for transportation and storage period) 
may be taken by the Lab/Estt or Supplier through Nationalized Insurance Agency 
or their subsidiaries to safe guard the Govt Property (FIM). If insurance is taken by 
the Supplier the insurance charges will be reimbursed by the Lab/Estt at actuals. 
For very costly stores, FIM may be issued in batches / lots. 
d) Stores issued as FIM for repair/ maintenance etc.:  Stores issued for purposes 
such as equipment or vehicle for painting/ repair/ fixture mounting etc. to the firm 
would be safeguarded through a comprehensive insurance cover taken b y Lab/Estt 
through a Nationalized Insurance Agency or their subsidiaries. If insurance is taken 
by the Supplier the insurance charges will be reimbursed by the Lab/Estt at actuals. 
e) Liquidated Damage (LD):  The Buyer reserves the right to impose LD in case of 
delay in supply attributable to the Seller at the rate of 0.5% per week or part thereof 
for stores which the Seller has failed to deliver within the period agreed for 
delivery in the contract  subject to maximum of 10% of the total order/contract 
value. In certain categories of procurement, LD can also be levied on the Seller on 
the basic cost of the stores supplied partially within the scope of the order/ contract 
that could not be put to use due to late delivery of the remaining stores. However, 
for developm ent contracts the rate of imposition of LD would be @ 0.25% per week 
or part thereof subject to maximum of 10% of the total order/contract value .  
f) Bank Guarantees (BGs ): 
(i) For Indian Firms:  Applicable BGs may be accepted from a public sector 
bank or a scheduled private commercial bank in the format prescribed by 
RBI. 
(ii) For Foreign Firms:  Applicable BGs may be accepted in the prescribed 
format from an Indian Public Sector/ Schedule Private Commercial Bank or 
a First Class International Bank of repute, acceptable to the Buyer . 
Guidelines on verification of BGs from Foreign Banks through SBI are given 
in Annexure ‘ A’ of this Manual. 
(iii) Indemnity bond may be accepted only from Government Departments/ 
DPSUs/ PSUs in lieu of BG. 