3 
 DFMM, DRDO HQ. Suggestions for improvements/amendments, if any, may also be 
sent to DFMM, DRDO HQ.  Doubts/ queries received from the users of the manual will 
be examined by DFMM and necessary clarifications, if required, will be issued after 
approval of Secretary Defence ( R&D ) with concurrence of Addl FA (R&D). However, 
clarifications having wider impact on policy matters across MoD would require approval 
of Secretary Defence (R&D) with concurrence of Secretary (Defence Finance) / FA 
(DS).  
1.9 DISAGREEMENT WITH FINANCE: 
At any stage of procurement, the CFA can overrule the advice of his/her Financial 
Adviser (FA) by a written order giving reasons for overruling the FA‟s advice on file. A 
copy of the order overruling FA‟s advice will be provided to FA for information. If such 
over-ruling of FA is done at AoN stage/ demand approval or at an interim stage of 
procurement, action in procurement process will be taken as per the decision of CFA and 
FA will continue to participate in this process as Finance member. At the time of 
Expenditure Sanction stage, FA can either concur the final proposal or record their 
dissent to the final proposal. CFA can agree with FA‟s advice or overrule the advice of 
the FA by a written order giving reasons for overruling the FA‟s advice on file at 
Expenditure Sanction stage. The sanction letter issued in latter cases will not contain UO 
number of FA but will clearly indicate that the advice of the FA was taken but the same 
was over-ruled by CFA and copy of relevant notings of FA & CFA will be endorsed along 
with the CFA sanction to CDA /PCDA for purposes of internal audit and payment. A 
quarterly report will be submitted by the FAs through CGDA to MoD (Fin) on such 
overruling cases. There will be no requirement for CFA to report the over-ruling cases to 
next higher CFA/FA. 
1.10 DEVIATIONS FROM PROC EDURE:  
1.10.1 There should normally be no occasion to deviate from the procedure as sufficient 
flexibility has been built into the provisions of this Manual. However, if such a need 
arises, Lab/Estt will forward the case to DFMM, DRDO HQ with due justification for 
approval of the Secretary Defence (R&D) with concurrence of Secretary (Defence 
Finance) / FA (DS). Depending on the merit of the case, the matter may also be 
submitted for approval of the Hon‟ble Raksha Mantri (RM).  
1.10.2 Variations from any RFP terms and conditions would not be considered as deviation 
from procedure, provided such variations are permissible as per the provisions of this 
Manual. Approval for such variation will be accorded by the respective CFA with 
concurrence of associated finance, as applicable. 4 
 1.11 CONFORMITY OF THE MANUAL WITH OTHER GOVERNMENT ORD ERS: 
The provisions contained in this Manual are in conformity with General Financial Rules, 
other orders issued b y Ministry of Finance and recommendations of Central Vigilance 
Commission from time to time.  If any instance of variance between the provisions of 
this Manual and MoF guidelines/ CVC recommendations comes to the notice of 
anyone, the same may be referred to DFMM, DRDO HQ who shall take necessary 
action for resolution of the issue and continuation of on-going procurements, if so 
necessitated, with the approval of Secretary Defence ( R&D ) and with the concurrence 
of Secretary (Defence Finance)/ FA (DS). 
1.12  BANKING INSTRUMENT A ND PRE-CONTRACT INTEGRITY PACT: 
a) Banking Instruments : Generally, payments to the foreign firms in case of procurement 
of stores are made through Letter of Credit (LC) or Direct Bank Transfer (DBT). The 
Uniform Customs and Practices for Documentary Credit (UCPDC) are a set of 
internationally recognized definition & rules for interpretation of documentary credi t 
issued by the International Chamber of Commerce, Paris. Annexure ‘ A’ may be referred 
with respect to banking instruments available for effecting payment to the foreign firm 
and the procedure for obtaining, accepting and verification of Bank Guarantees.  
b) Pre-Contract Integrity Pact:  Integrity Pact is a specific tool used to build transparency 
in public procurement by both public institutions and private agencies. The goal of the 
Integrity Pact is to eliminate chances of corrupt practices during procurement process 
through a binding agreement between the Parties for specific contract. The standard text 
of Pre-Contract Integrity Pact is given in Annexure ‘B’. 
1.13 APPLICABILITY OF INSTRUCTIONS/ ORDERS ISSUED IN FUTURE 
The provisions of this Manual would be subject to general or special instructions/ orders/ 
amendments which the Government may issue from time to time. 
1.14  E-PUBLISHING AND E- PROCUREMENT 
Procurements will be governed by the provisions of Rule 159 and 160 of GFR-2017 
relating to e-Publishing and e-Procurement and instructions issued by Govt. from time to 
time.    
1.15 DEFINITIONS: 
Unless the context otherwise requires, definitions/terminology used in this Manual are 
as under: 