143 
 11.2. 15 Where Indian/ regional offices of foreign firms are to provide after sales services, such 
as installation & commissioning, execution of warranty operations and post-warranty 
maintenance etc ., such stipulation will be explicitly mentioned  in the terms and 
conditions of the supply order/ contract.  
11.3 HANDLING OF INDIAN AGENTS: 
Where Indian agents quote on behalf of their foreign bidder/ OEM as per their 
authorization, they would be required to enlist themselves as per para 3.6.1 of this 
Manual. In such cases conditions for appointment of agents by foreign vendors as 
mentioned at para 7.2.5 would also be applicable.  
11.3.1 The amount of commission payable would be brought on record and made explicit so 
as to ensure compliance of tax laws and prevent leakage of foreign exchange.  
11.3.2 Commission payable will preferably be paid in Indian rupees in compliance with the 
Foreign Exchange Management (Current Account Transactions) Rules, 2000 issued 
vide Notification No G.S.R. 381(E) dated 03 May 2000 and the directions issued by 
Reserve Bank of India under Foreign Exchange Management Act from time to time. 
Where the agency commission is payable directly by the foreign principals/ OEM, an 
undertaking would be obtained from the Indian agent to the effect that agency 
commission shall be received through inward FFE remittance through banking 
channels and will be accepted in Indian rupees only. 
11.3.3 The negotiation on amount of commission shall be avoided as it leads to under 
reporting of the commission. 
11.3.4 TDS, as per prevailing rules, will be deducted from the agency commission payable to 
the Indian Agent.  
11.3.5 All particulars relating to agency commission will be reported by Lab/Estt to the 
Enforcement Directorate (www.enforcementdirectorate.gov.in) .  
11.4 INDIAN/ REGIONAL OFFICE OF FOREIGN OEM:  
Where regional offices of foreign firms have been authorised and set up within the 
country, they will not be treated as agents of the foreign firms and financial dealings 
with such regional offices will be restricted to the norms stipulated by the RBI for each 
specific case. Such regional offices form integral part of the foreign vendors and their 
functions are totally controlled by their corporate office abroad and hence are not 
entitled to any agency commission. 144 
 11.5 PROJECTION OF FE REQUIREMENT: 
Labs/Estts are required to forward their consolidated requirement of foreign exchange 
(FE) to DFMM/ DRDO HQ in the month of February for the next Financial Year ( FY) as 
per DRDO.FE.01 . 
11.6 FE RELEASE & NOTING 
11.6.1 Bulk Release & Noting : Allocation of bulk FE and its noting will be made by DRDO HQ 
(DFMM) . This allocation will be made at the beginning of financial year and on as-
required basis. 
11.6.2 Item release by Labs/ Estts/ Program : No separate approval/ sanction for FE release 
would be required for import procurements. The release of FE will only be noted at the 
Budget Cell of the Labs/ Estts. after the expenditure sanction has been concurred by 
financial advisor and approved by CFA as per the delegation of financial power. 
Payment will be made to the beneficiary as per the terms and conditions of the SO/ 
Contract through CDA (R&D)/ Bank concerned. 
11.6.3 FE release would be noted on the basis of CIF/CIP cost. It will, therefore, be ensured 
that amount paid towards customs, freight and insurance charges are noted against the 
foreign exchange allocation even if these are paid in Indian rupees.  
11.6.4 FE release would not be noted in excess of bulk allocation in anticipation of additional 
release from DRDO HQ. Additional allocations will be sought well in advance from 
DFMM to obviate delay. 
11.6.5 Lab will ensure availability of funds in rupee in the relevant budget head to cover FE 
released on cash outgo basis in the financial year. 
11.7 DENOTING/ RENOTING OF FE: 
Unutilized bulk FE allocated to the Lab/Estt by DRDO HQ on cash outgo basis for the 
financial year will lapse at the end of the financial year. Similarly, unutilized item-wise 
financial year release on cash outgo basis for all the cases lapses at the end of the 
financial year and needs to be denoted and renoted, if required, in the next FY.  
a) Bulk Denoting : Surplus FE available with Lab against bulk allocation may be 
denoted by sending a request to DFMM as soon as it is noticed. 
b) Item Denoting/ Renoting : All Denoting/ Renoting of the item-wise FE released 
against item shall be done at Lab level only. 