142 
 such cases, authorization letter from OEM should be recorded in the minutes of TCEC 
or CNC meeting and participant should be referred to/ recorded only as rep authorised 
to attend the meeting on behalf of said OEM and not as Indian Agent. Care should be 
taken in all such cases that the person authorised to attend the meeting on behalf of 
OEM is expected to submit clarifications/ revised bid etc., as the case may be, only in 
the original letter head of the OEM. It is re-emphasized that only Indian Agent enlisted 
as per para 3.6 of this Manual or 100% subsidiary of OEM in India may submit offer on 
behalf of OEM if they have been authorised for the same by the OEM. 
11.2.7 In respect of bids received from abroad, it may not be always possible for the foreign 
bidders to come for CNC  meeting except for high value items. In such cases, CNC may 
invite revised best offer with all terms clarified from the lowest bidder through fax/e-mail 
before finalizing the price. 
11.2.8 The term of delivery should preferably be decided on FCA/FOB (gateway) basis. 
However, the Buyer may finalize any other term of delivery on the merit of case as per 
the INCOTERMS 2020 issued by International Chamber of Commerce (ICC). 
11.2.9 Confirmed LC as a condition of payment should be avoided as it undermines the 
credibility of our nationalized banks. 
11.2. 10 The nature of services to be rendered by Indian agent of OEM/ foreign Sellers, if any, 
and the commission payable to Indian agent shall be explicitly reflected in the supply 
order/contract. The commission shall be paid in accordance with para 11.3 of this 
Manual .  
11.2. 11 CFA will be determined on the basis of 110% of the negotiated cost to cater for basic 
customs duty, currency fluctuation, freight and bank charges as applicable. However, 
should the expenditure exceed this limit, approval of appropriate CFA will be taken at 
actual. 
11.2. 12 The letter conveying the expenditure sanction for the foreign procurement should 
invariably incorporate the total amount to be paid in foreign currency including 
insurance and freight charges as well as mode of payment (through LC or DBT). 
11.2. 13 Payments towards training, installation & commissioning and AMC of capital equipment 
should be explicitly mentioned in the contract/ SO. 
11.2. 14 Supply orders shall include special instructions, if any, governing packing/ forwarding, 
insurance, airfreight, transportation, etc.  