176 
 15.10 CFA APPROVAL FOR SIGNING RC/PA: 
Approval of CFA for concluding RC/PA would be obtained as per the delegation of 
financial power, based on the recommendation of CNC. CFA would be determined on 
the cumulative anticipated annual withdrawal against such RC/PA even if parallel RCs 
are entered through separate bidding. 
15.11 SCRUTINY AND APPROVAL OF RC/PA:  
A draft contract will be prepared by MMG as per the format DRDO.RC.01 and the 
same shall be scrutinized, by an officer specifically authorized by Director of RC/PA 
concluding Lab/Estt, for its correctness vis-a-vis rate and terms & conditions approved 
by CFA. The draft contract may also be referred to finance rep for scrutiny. Thereafter, 
the agreement should be signed and dispatched as per para 9.2. 4 and 9.2.5 of this 
Manual. Copy of the contract will also be sent to all the Labs/Estts who may be using it. 
15.12 PARALLEL RC: 
In cases it is observed that the rate contractor does not have capacity to cater for 
expected demand or where it is desired to have a wider vendor base for whatever 
reasons, RCs will be concluded with more than one firm for the same store/ service. 
Such contracts are known as parallel RCs. Parallel RCs will be concluded with other 
bidders at L1 rate and terms & conditions. For the sake of transparency and to avoid 
any criticism, all such RCs are to be issued simultaneously. 
15.13 SPECIAL CONDITIONS APPLICABLE FOR RC/ PA: 
15.13.1 Earnest Money Deposit (EMD) is not applicable. 
15.13.2 In the schedule of requirement, no quantity is mentioned; only the anticipated drawal 
may be mentioned without any commitment. 
15.13.3 Performance cum Warranty Bond of reasonable amount from the RC/PA holders will be 
obtained prior to entering into such agreement. 
15.13.4 Payment Terms: Payment up to 100% may be released on receipt of stores at 
consignee‟s premises against Invoice, Inspection Note, and Certificate in respect of Fall 
Clause. The balance payment will be made after accounting of items by the consignee. 
15.13.5 The Buyer reserves the right to conclude more than one RC for the same item. 
15.13.6 The Buyer as well as the Seller may withdraw the RC/ PA by serving suitable notice to 
each other. The prescribed notice period is generally not less than thirty days. 
However, supply orders placed during the notice period will be honoured by the Seller. 