175 
 into on not less favourable terms and conditions than those agreed to by it with the 
other Departments, Undertakings, etc.   
15.7 CFA DETERMINATION FOR ENTERING INTO RC/ PA: 
CFA for entering into such contracts will be determined based on the anticipated value 
of annual drawal vis-à-vis mode of bidding. RC/PA with validity period of more than 
three years would be concluded with prior approval of Secretary Defence (R&D) with 
the concurrence of Addl. FA (R&D) & JS for all CFAs in DRDO.  
15.8 PERIOD OF RC/PA: 
Normally the duration of such agreement should be for a period not exceeding three 
years. No extension to validity of the contract is required when deliveries against 
outstanding supply orders continue after expiry of the validity period.  
15.9 PROCESS OF CONCLUDING RC/PA: 
15.9.1 Finalization of scope : The scope of RC/PA will be finalized by MMG of Lab/Estt after 
consolidating the demand of other Labs/Estts in the station, if applicable. 
15.9.2 Demand initiation and its approval : Rate Contract can be entered into by the 
Lab/Estts either for items required by several users (Lab/Estt) in a station on recurring 
basis or for meeting the specific requirement of a particular Lab /Estt.  
15.9.3 RC cases which are suitable for a specific Lab may be processed and finalized by the 
Lab as per provisions of th is chapter without referring to HQrs. RC cases which involve 
multiple Labs would be referred to DFMM/DRDO HQrs only for nomination of a nodal 
Lab. Thereafter, the consolidated RC case would be processed and finalized by the 
nodal Lab. CFAs for the consolidated RC case would be decided as per the approval 
chain in the DFP pertaining to the nodal Lab. 
15.9.4 Mode of Bidding: The default mode  of bidding to finalize a RC will be on the basis of 
open bidding. PA will be concluded only with the manufacturers/exclusive dealers. 
Other mode of bidding may be adopted in exceptional cases with due justification.  
15.9.5 Bidding Process : This will be done as per the provisions contained in Chapter 6 of this 
Manual. Format of RFP would be suitably modified for conclusion of RC/PA by 
inclusion of the special terms and conditions for such contracts. Some of these 
conditions are given in  para 7 .3 of this Manual. All the cases of RC/PA would be 
scrutinized by CNC as per para 6.38 as applicable. The L1 bidder would be determined 
as per provisions of para 8.3 of this Manual.  