179 
 that the price trend is not lower. RC/ PA of the firms, which do not agree to such 
extension, is to be left out of consideration for renewal and extension. Any extension of 
the existing RC beyond a period of three years would need the approval of Secretary 
Defence (R&D) with the concurrence of Addl. FA ( R&D)  & JS. 
15.17 TERMINATION AND REVOCATION OF RC/ PA: 
RC/PA is in the nature of standing offer and a legal contract comes into force only 
when a supply order is placed by the Buyer. Being just a standing offer, embodying 
various terms of the offer, the contract holder may revoke it at any time during its 
currency.  However, reasonable opportunity i.e. not less than thirty days should be 
given to the contractor to represent against any revocation/cancellation of RC/PA. 
 
  180 
 16 CHAPTER 16  
PAYMENT/ CLEARANCE OF BILLS 
16.1 GENERAL: 
After the stores have been received in good condition, inspected to the satisfaction of 
the user and Brought on Charge (BOC), it becomes obligatory on the part of Lab/Estt 
to clear the Seller ‟s bills promptly. It is the responsibility of the Lab/Estt to ensure that 
the Seller ‟s bills are paid as per terms and conditions stipulated in the supply order/ 
contract. To prevent any misuse and to promote transparency, all payments to Sellers 
may be made through electronic mode of payment only. The supply orders/ contracts 
may include a clause asking the Sellers to provide details of their banker‟s name, 
branch, branch code, branch address, account (a/c) number, type of a/c, MICR 
number, IFS Code and PAN with their bills as a measure of safety so as to enable the 
paying authority to credit the payment into S ellers‟ a/c directly through electronic mode 
of payment. In situations where electronic mode of payment is not possible, Lab 
Director will authorize the payment by account payee cheque. The Seller will furnish 
bankers details such as banker's name, branch and a/c no. to the paying authority. 
Details of payments made by cheque will be intimated to the local audit authorities 
periodically. 
16.1.1 Lab/Estt will communicate the specimen signatures of the officers authorized, to the 
paying authority, to sign contingent bills, CRVs and other financial documents.  
16.2 DOCUMENTS TO BE ENCLOSED FOR CLAIMING PAYMENT: 
The documents to be submitted for audit and payment depend upon the nature of 
procurement and the terms and conditions of a particular supply order/ contract. 
However, essential documents that are required for audit and payment are as follows: 
16.2.1 Documents to be submitted to the audit authority along with advance copy of the 
Supply Order/ Contract : 
a) Ink singed copy of the Supply Order/ Contract and amendments thereon with 
authority. 
b) An ink-signed copy of Financial Sanction of the CFA and amendments. 
c) A copy of the techno-commercial evaluation report in case of two bid system. 
d) A copy of the Comparative Statement of Bids (CSB)/ CNC proceedings, as 
applicable. 
e) PAC/ any other certificate that may be peculiar to the procurement. 