125 
 e) Currencies and rates both in figures and words. 
f) Total number of items and their aggregate value shown below the list of items. 
g) Delivery date to be specified clearly with reference to the date of supply order. 
h) Payment terms. 
i) Payment of taxes and duties: It will be clearly mentioned in the supply order that 
taxes and duties will be paid at actuals on production of relevant documentary 
proof if already deposited or a self certification from the Seller that taxes received 
under the contract would be deposited to the concerned taxation authorities. . 
j) Standard terms and conditions of the RFP. 
k) Details of FIM to be issued along with their time schedule. 
l) Special terms and conditions as mutually agreed. 
m) Orders will be signed for and on behalf of „President of India‟ by an officer 
specifically authorised. 
9.2.2 MMG will prepare Supply Order and acknowledgement as per DRDO.SO.01 and 
DRDO.SO.02  respectively. Form given at DRDO.SO.03  will be used to prepare 
Contracts.. Information regarding S eller‟s bank account details along with IFS Code of 
receiving branch of bank will be reflected in the SO/ Contract to facilitate e-payment.   
9.2.3 Scrutiny of Supply Order : Supply order/ Contract may be referred to the user group/ 
Finance for scrutiny.  
9.2.4 Distribution of Supply Order/ Contra ct: In case of SO, a minimum of four ink signed 
copies and in case of Contract a minimum of three ink signed copies will be prepared. 
Distribution of SO/ Contract will be as follows:  
a) Seller –  
(i) In case of supply order: 2 copies with markings as “Original t o be 
Acknowledged & Return” and “Original to be Retained” ( both ink-signed 
copies ) with a request to return the one marked as “Original to be 
Acknowledged and Return” for settlement of bills  
(ii) In case of contract: 1 copy ( ink-signed ) 
b) Paying Authority (Local CDA (R&D) ) – 1 copy ( ink-signed ) 
c) Demanding officer – 1 copy 
d) Stores Movement Control Div. (Receipt & Dispatch Section) – 1 copy  