31 
 d) Directors may consider hiring the services of experts for preparation of Detailed 
Project Report (DPR) and other pre-contract activities for procurement of high-
tech items mentioned under (b) and (c) above. It is expected that the consultancy 
charges paid for the same would not exceed 1% of the estimated unit cost. 
4.3.5 Expression of Interest (EOI)/ Request for Information (RFI): In those cases where 
specifications/ cost/ likely sources of supply/ time schedule/ pre-qualification of 
prospective bidders in respect of the desired goods or services are not clear, a notice 
calling for EOI/RFI may be issued/ published with “in -principle” approval of CFA or  / DG 
Cluster (whichever is lower). Discussions may be held with the firms which have 
responded to EOI/RFI to firm up the above before issuing the RFP. This may be 
resorted to only for high value items (estimated cost ≥ Rs. 50 lakhs). 
a) The EOI/RFI may be published in case of non-sensitive items on the website of 
DRDO and CPP Portal. Enquiry for seeking EOI should include in brief, the broad 
scope of work or service, inputs required by the Buyer. The prospective Sellers/ 
service provider may also be asked to forward their comments/ suggestions on 
the scope of the work or service projected in the enquiry. Normally three to four 
weeks time should be allowed for getting responses from interested prospective 
Sellers/ service providers. 
b) Caution:  No respondent will be eliminated at EOI stage unless it has been done 
for the sole purpose of pre-qualification of prospective bidders as per the 
provisions in Chapter 3 of this Manual. In such cases, the outcome of the pre-
qualification process will be intimated to all respondents and RFP may be issued, 
with the approval of CFA, on Limited Bidding Mode (LBM) only to the pre-
qualified vendors. 
4.4 POINTS TO BE CONSIDERED WHILE INITIATING DEMAND: 
Demands for procurement of stores/services will be initiated by an officer as per para 
4.6 of this Manual after checking the availability of stores with MMG. Indenter will 
ensure:  
a) That list of deliverables is clearly identified with specifications (ref er para 4.3 of 
this Manual) and quantity in case of procurement of goods/ stores. The desired 
and realistic delivery period also needs to be specified.  
b) That scope and period of work is identified in case of procurement of services. 
c) „Growth of Work’ : To cater to the situation of Growth of Work where exact 
requirements cannot be determined and may undergo changes during execution 32 
 of certain contracts for repair/ maintenance, the same shall be explicitly brought 
to the notice of the CFA and approval of the same would be obtained at the time 
of demand approval and expenditure sanction. The provision for growth of work is 
also to be reflected in the RFP and relevant pro-rata rates are to be negotiated 
and reflected in S.O/Contract accordingly.   
d) That the quality related requirements are explicitly mentioned, where required. 
e) That cost of the proposal is estimated with due diligence and care. The basis of 
estimation will be placed on record. Estimated cost should be worked out in a 
professional manner as it is a vital element in establishing the reasonableness of 
prices. It should be worked out in realistic and objective manner on the basis of 
prevailing market rates, last purchased price, economic indices for raw material/ 
labour, other inputs costs, and assessment based on intrinsic values etc. 
f) That proposed Mode of Bidding/ Repeat Order / Rate Contract/ Syllabus Work 
Order Demand (SWOD) is mentioned along with likely sources of supply. 
g) That "Proprietary Article Certificate" (PAC) as per format at DRDO.DM.02 for 
proprietary items or justification for procurement on Single Bidding Mode (SBM) 
as per DRDO.DM.03  is submitted, if applicable. 
h) That inspection/acceptance test procedure, mode of transportation and 
requirement of insurance cover along with other special instructions, as 
applicable are clearly indicated. 
i) That waivers sought from normal procurement process, if any, are explicitly 
specified. For example, from e-Publishing, submission of Bank Guarant ee (BG) 
etc.  
j) That reference of projected demand in the Forecast Budget Estimate (FBE) is 
mentioned, else reasons for non-reflection in FBE is recorded. 
k) Eligibility Criteria for bidders as per Public Procurement (Preference to Make in 
India), Order-2017 as amended issued by DPIIT/Ministry of Commerce and 
Industry as applicable are considered.  
l) That Vendor Qualification Criteria (VQC), where required, and special terms & 
conditions for the particular purchase, as applicable, are mentioned. 
m) Free Issue Material (FIM) : In contracts where Govt. property is entrusted to the 
Seller, specific provision for safeguarding Govt. property needs to be included in 
the RFP and contract. FIM would be safeguarded as per provisions of para 