175 
 into on not less favourable terms and conditions than those agreed to by it with the 
other Departments, Undertakings, etc.   
15.7 CFA DETERMINATION FOR ENTERING INTO RC/ PA: 
CFA for entering into such contracts will be determined based on the anticipated value 
of annual drawal vis-à-vis mode of bidding. RC/PA with validity period of more than 
three years would be concluded with prior approval of Secretary Defence (R&D) with 
the concurrence of Addl. FA (R&D) & JS for all CFAs in DRDO.  
15.8 PERIOD OF RC/PA: 
Normally the duration of such agreement should be for a period not exceeding three 
years. No extension to validity of the contract is required when deliveries against 
outstanding supply orders continue after expiry of the validity period.  
15.9 PROCESS OF CONCLUDING RC/PA: 
15.9.1 Finalization of scope : The scope of RC/PA will be finalized by MMG of Lab/Estt after 
consolidating the demand of other Labs/Estts in the station, if applicable. 
15.9.2 Demand initiation and its approval : Rate Contract can be entered into by the 
Lab/Estts either for items required by several users (Lab/Estt) in a station on recurring 
basis or for meeting the specific requirement of a particular Lab /Estt.  
15.9.3 RC cases which are suitable for a specific Lab may be processed and finalized by the 
Lab as per provisions of th is chapter without referring to HQrs. RC cases which involve 
multiple Labs would be referred to DFMM/DRDO HQrs only for nomination of a nodal 
Lab. Thereafter, the consolidated RC case would be processed and finalized by the 
nodal Lab. CFAs for the consolidated RC case would be decided as per the approval 
chain in the DFP pertaining to the nodal Lab. 
15.9.4 Mode of Bidding: The default mode  of bidding to finalize a RC will be on the basis of 
open bidding. PA will be concluded only with the manufacturers/exclusive dealers. 
Other mode of bidding may be adopted in exceptional cases with due justification.  
15.9.5 Bidding Process : This will be done as per the provisions contained in Chapter 6 of this 
Manual. Format of RFP would be suitably modified for conclusion of RC/PA by 
inclusion of the special terms and conditions for such contracts. Some of these 
conditions are given in  para 7 .3 of this Manual. All the cases of RC/PA would be 
scrutinized by CNC as per para 6.38 as applicable. The L1 bidder would be determined 
as per provisions of para 8.3 of this Manual.  176 
 15.10 CFA APPROVAL FOR SIGNING RC/PA: 
Approval of CFA for concluding RC/PA would be obtained as per the delegation of 
financial power, based on the recommendation of CNC. CFA would be determined on 
the cumulative anticipated annual withdrawal against such RC/PA even if parallel RCs 
are entered through separate bidding. 
15.11 SCRUTINY AND APPROVAL OF RC/PA:  
A draft contract will be prepared by MMG as per the format DRDO.RC.01 and the 
same shall be scrutinized, by an officer specifically authorized by Director of RC/PA 
concluding Lab/Estt, for its correctness vis-a-vis rate and terms & conditions approved 
by CFA. The draft contract may also be referred to finance rep for scrutiny. Thereafter, 
the agreement should be signed and dispatched as per para 9.2. 4 and 9.2.5 of this 
Manual. Copy of the contract will also be sent to all the Labs/Estts who may be using it. 
15.12 PARALLEL RC: 
In cases it is observed that the rate contractor does not have capacity to cater for 
expected demand or where it is desired to have a wider vendor base for whatever 
reasons, RCs will be concluded with more than one firm for the same store/ service. 
Such contracts are known as parallel RCs. Parallel RCs will be concluded with other 
bidders at L1 rate and terms & conditions. For the sake of transparency and to avoid 
any criticism, all such RCs are to be issued simultaneously. 
15.13 SPECIAL CONDITIONS APPLICABLE FOR RC/ PA: 
15.13.1 Earnest Money Deposit (EMD) is not applicable. 
15.13.2 In the schedule of requirement, no quantity is mentioned; only the anticipated drawal 
may be mentioned without any commitment. 
15.13.3 Performance cum Warranty Bond of reasonable amount from the RC/PA holders will be 
obtained prior to entering into such agreement. 
15.13.4 Payment Terms: Payment up to 100% may be released on receipt of stores at 
consignee‟s premises against Invoice, Inspection Note, and Certificate in respect of Fall 
Clause. The balance payment will be made after accounting of items by the consignee. 
15.13.5 The Buyer reserves the right to conclude more than one RC for the same item. 
15.13.6 The Buyer as well as the Seller may withdraw the RC/ PA by serving suitable notice to 
each other. The prescribed notice period is generally not less than thirty days. 
However, supply orders placed during the notice period will be honoured by the Seller. 