35 
 4.6.3 Initiation of Demand along with Project Sanction : Lab/Estt may explicitly seek 
Demand approval/ AON approval for items required for execution of the Project/Prog 
along with Project/ Prog sanction itself. Demand approval of items may be approved by 
respective CFAs, during the Project/Programme sanction process, in consultation with 
respective Financial Advisors where applicable. 
a) Separate approvals will be communicated for Project/Prog sanction and the related 
demand approvals to obviate amendment to Project/Prog sanction letter in case any 
change is to be made to the approved demand later on. 
b) In case demand approval is given with Project/Prog sanction, expenditure sanction 
would be taken subsequently from respective CFA as per provision of Chapter 9.  
4.6.4 Initiation of Demand for Projects Submitted for Approval/ PDC extension/ Cost 
Enhancement: 
a) The Buyer may raise a demand for procurement and process it for approval 
under Build-up as per the delegated powers against the requirement in a project 
which is submitted for approval of CFA. SoC for such cases should clearly record 
the reasons for doing so. The Buyer will ensure that the commitment will be made 
only after project approval and the sanctions accorded would be deemed 
transferred to the project. 
b) The demands for procurement in sanctioned projects awaiting extension of 
PDC/enhancement of funds from the CFA may be processed in the project in 
anticipation of approval. However, the commitment will be made only after receipt 
of the necessary approval. 
4.6.5 Determination of CFA : The level of approval of CFA would depend on the total cost of 
proposal, inclusive of all taxes, levies and other charges vis-à-vis mode of bidding. 
a) CFA for the procurement of stores against Repeat Order would be decided as per 
the provision of para 10.11.3 of this Manual. 
b) F or procurement of goods and services already developed and being 
manufactured by the Ordnance Factories through Syllabus Work Order Demand 
(SWOD), CFA would be determined as per delegation of financial powers for 
competitive bidding .  
c) In case of procurement of stores, directly or through referral order, on Rate 
Contract concluded by MoD, SHQs and PSOs of SHQ (MGO, COL, AOM, DGIS 
etc.), CFA would be determined as per delegation of financial powers for 36 
 competitive bidding. 
4.7 PROCESSING OF DEMAND FOR APPROVAL: 
4.7.1 Role and Responsibilities of Indenter : Indenter will initiate the demand as per 
provisions of para 4.4 of this Manual and submit the same to the Head of Group/ 
Division. Thereafter, he would continue to extend support during scrutiny of demand, at 
the time of bid evaluation, order monitoring and acceptance stage. 
4.7.2 Role and Responsibilities of Head of the Group/ Division : Group/ Division Head will 
scrutinize specifications, quantity, estimated cost, special terms and conditions, vendor 
qualification criteria, bid evaluation criteria, format of the price bid as proposed in the 
demand and submit the same to MMG with recommendations after examining the 
following aspects: 
a) Existing holding of indented stores vis-à-vis consumption pattern or proposed 
utilization. 
b) Confirm that the necessity is absolute and there is no duplication. 
c) Check against splitting of demand to avoid approval of higher CFAs. 
d) Confirmation that the specifications mentioned are generic and do not contain 
any brand name/ part/ model number except by way of indication of comparable 
quality. 
e) Recommend mode of bidding with justification/ comment on justification given by 
indenter for recommending Single/ Limited/ PAC mode of bidding or Repeat 
Order or RC or SWOD, as applicable. Also comment on justification for choosing 
un-registered vendor, if any, and need of pre-bid conference, if required. 
f) Confirm that proposed procurement is part of an approved annual build up/ 
project procurement plan with reference to the relevant entry, else record reasons 
for its non-reflection. 
g) Ascertain whether proposed procurement requires any other complementary/ 
supplementary expenditure such as on hardware, software, Civil works. If so, 
provide details thereof. 
h) Specify a realistic time for MMG to process the approved demand till the supply 
order which normally should not exceed one year. 
i) Comment on justifications given for dispensation from e-publishing and other 
waivers, if requested. 