91 
 specified in the Contract, the Buyer may, at his discretion, withhold any payment until 
the completion of the Contract.”  
7.2.10 Liquidated Damages (LD):  Compensation of loss on account of late delivery, where 
loss is pre-estimated and mutually agreed to, is termed as LD. Law allows recovery of 
pre-estimated loss, provided such a term is included in the contract. For imposition of 
LD, there is no need to establish actual loss due to late supply. The legal position with 
regard to claim for LD is as follows: 
a) Whatever the quantum of the loss sustained, the claim cannot exceed the sum 
stipulated in the contract. 
b) Only reasonable sum can be calculated as damages, which in a given situation 
may be less than the sum stipulated. 
c) What is a reasonable sum would depend on facts. 
d) Court may proceed on the assumption that the sum stipulated reflects the genuine 
pre-estimates of the parties as to the probable loss and such clause is intended to 
dispense with proof thereof. 
e) The distinction between penalty and LD has been abolished by the Indian Contract 
Act and in every case, the Court is not bound to award more than „reasonabl e 
compensation‟ not exceeding the amount so named.  
The standard text of this clause is as under: 
“The Buyer may deduct from the Seller, as agreed, liquidated damages at the rate 
of_____ per week  or part thereof, of the basic cost of the delayed stores which the 
Seller has failed to deliver within the period agreed for delivery in the contract. LD can 
also be levied on the Seller on the basic cost of the stores supplied partially within the 
scope of the order/ contract that could not be put to use due to late delivery of the 
remaining stores. The maximum quantum of LD would be 10% of the total order value. ” 
7.2.11 Termination of Contract : This clause highlights the conditions under which a Contract/ 
SO can be legally terminated before the contractual obligation/ duties have been 
fulfilled. This is governed by the Law of the Contract/ SO. The standard text of this 
clause is as under: 
a) “The store/ service is not received/ rendered as per the contracted schedule(s) and 
the same has not been extended by the Buyer. 
Or 
The delivery of the store/service is delayed for causes not attributable to Force 
Majeure for more than __ months after the scheduled date of delivery and the 92 
 delivery period has not been extended by the Buyer.  
b) The delivery of store/service is delayed due to causes of Force Majeure by more 
than __ months provided Force Majeure clause is included in the contract and the 
delivery period has not been extended by the Buyer.  
c) The Seller is declared bankrupt or becomes insolvent.  
d) The Buyer has noticed that the Seller has violated the provisions of use of undue 
influence and/ or employment of agent to obtain the Contract.  
e) As per decision of the Arbitration Tribunal .” 
7.2.12 Notices: This clause specifies the mode of communication between parties. The 
standard text of this clause is as under: 
“Any notice required or permitted by the Contract shall be written in English language 
and may be delivered personally or may be sent by FAX or registered pre-paid mail/ 
airmail, addressed to the last known address of the party to w hom it is sent”.  
7.2.13 Transfer and Sub-letting : By this clause Seller is bound not to transfer/ sublet the 
contract/ SO or any of its part to a third party without the written consent of the Buyer . 
The standard text of this clause is as under: 
“The Seller has n o right to give, bargain, sell, assign or sublet or otherwise dispose of 
the Contract or any part thereof, as well as to give or to let a third party take benefit or 
advantage of the Contract or any part thereof without written consent of the Buyer.”  
7.2.14 Use of Patents and other Industrial Property Rights : This clause protects Buyer 
from a third party claim against infringement of Industrial Property Rights. The standard 
text of this clause is as under:  
“The prices stated in the Contract/  SO shall be deemed to include all amounts payable 
for the use of patents, copyrights, registered charges, trademarks and payments for 
any other Industrial Property Rights. The Seller shall indemnify the Buyer against all 
claims from a third party at any time on account of the infringement of any or all the 
rights mentioned in the previous paragraphs, whether such claims arise in respect of 
manufacture or use. The Seller shall be responsible for the completion of the supplies 
including spares, tools, technical literature and training aggregates irrespective of the 
fact of infringement of the supplies or any or all the rights mentioned above.”  
7.2.15 Amendments : This clause specifies the way by which any amendments to the 
contract/ SO can be made. The standard text of this clause is as under: 