41 
 instead of raising separate case file for every demand of same item. Such demands will 
be approved by appropriate CFA as per cumulative value and expenditure heads of 
relevant projects would be indicated in expenditure sanction and accordingly booked to 
respective project expenditures for accounting purpose. 
4.14 VALIDITY OF DEMAND APPROVAL: 
The demand approval accorded by CFA will be issued in the form of an order and will 
remain valid for one year from the date of issuance unless otherwise specified. The 
Buyer shall ensure placement of Supply Order (SO) or signing of Contract, as per laid-
down procedure, within the period of validity; else re-validation of demand would be 
required. 
4.15 AMENDMENT OF DEMAND: 
After demand approval and before issue of RFP if there is any change, the approval of 
the appropriate CFA as per delegated financial powers will be required.  
  42 
 5 CHAPTER 5  
PROCUREMENT OF GOODS/SERVICES: WITHOUT BIDDING 
5.1 GENERAL: 
Certain goods/ services may be procured without formal bidding process. The different 
modes of purchase in such cases can be classified as under: 
a) Govt. e-Marketplace (GeM) 
b) Petty Purchase 
c) Minor Purchase through Local Purchase Committee (LPC) 
d) Purchase using Rate Contract  
e) Govt. designated Sources 
f) SWOD 
5.2 PETTY PURCHASE PROCEDURE: 
5.2.1 Petty purchase will normally be resorted to for procurement up to the amount specified 
under Rule 154 of GFR-2017 and as amended from time to time or as per the 
delegated petty purchase powers in respect of cases mentioned below:   
a) For small value items/ services. 
b) For procurement of goods & services of unanticipated/ emergent/ breakdown 
nature required to be made at a short notice. 
c) To meet requirements of parts/ components & services for trials of major 
equipment and systems at outstation. 
5.2.2 CFA will ensure that splitting of demands is avoided and provisions of purchase 
preference as per Public Procurement (Preference to Make in India), Order-2017 as 
amended, issued by DPIIT/ Ministry of Commerce and Industry are followed. 
5.2.3 In the following types of cases, even though the value does not exceed petty purchase 
limit, a regular supply order will be placed: 
a) Foreign purchase, 
b) Where the sale procedure of a particular firm does not provide for cash sale, and  
c) Where the nature of transaction makes it necessary to issue a regular supply order. 