153 
 principles may, however, be followed :  
a) Exploration of sources in the public and private sector should be as wide as 
possible before placement of development order to encourage competition.  
b) Ability of the Development Partner to execute work of the desired quality in the 
required time schedule should be evaluated and verified by the Techno 
Commercial Evaluation Committee.  
c) Development contracts should preferably be concluded with two or more partners 
in parallel, subject to the other bidder(s) agreeing to match the negotiated price 
and conditions of L1, else, the full order may be placed on the L1 firm. Placement 
of parallel contracts on two parties is desirable to have more than one source of 
supply at bulk production stage. Besides, it also increases the probability of 
successful completion of the developmental work in time. The ratio of splitting of 
the proposed quantity between bidders and criteria thereof must be mentioned in 
the RFP. Ratio of splitting would be preferably in favour of L1. 
d) If requirement is meager or sources are limited or proposal is not considered cost 
effective, a single source having expertise in the requisite field may be 
considered with appropriate justification and approval of the CFA. 
e) The ability of the firm to take up bulk production should be borne in mind while 
exploring the sources for contracts which are likely to lead to large scale 
production. 
f) For assigning development/fabrication task, the information available with DGQA, 
other DRDO Labs/Estts and Scientific Depts. may also be utilized to select 
appropriate partner. The selected firm should have the capacity and capability to 
undertake development and bulk production, even if it entails setting up of a 
separate production line, provided their policies do not forbid them from such 
commitments. Where bulk production is envisaged after design and development 
by DRDO, association of a suitable production agency may be considered during 
design and pre-production phases. 
g) The RFP document would be issued free of cost. The facility to use testing/ 
infrastructure facilities available in DRDO Labs may be extended to development 
partner(s) as per mutually agreed terms on case to case basis. Labs would 
decide the same and it would be reflected in the RFP. However, the anticipated 
cost of such usage would be indicated in the proposal to CFA to determine the 
cost of development. 