97 
 suspicion of a violation by that Bidder emerges;  
e) The explicit acceptance by each Bidder that the no-bribery commitment and the 
disclosure obligation as well as the attendant sanctions remain in force for the 
winning Bidder until the contract has been fully executed.  
f) Undertaking on behalf of a Bidding company will be made “in the name and on 
behalf of the company‟s Chief Executive Officer”.  
g) Any or all of the following set of sanctions could be enforced for any violation by a 
Bidder of its commitments or undertakings:  
(i) Denial or loss of contracts;  
(ii) Forfeiture of the EMD and Performance cum Warranty Bond;  
(iii) Liability for damages to the Principal and the competing Bidders; and  
(iv) Debarment of the violator by the Principal for an appropriate period of 
time.  
h) Bidders are also advised to have a company code of conduct clearly rejecting the 
use of bribes and other unethical behavior and compliance program for the 
implementation of the code of conduct throughout the company. 
i) The draft Pre-Contract Integrity Pact is attached as Annexure ‘B’. The Bidders 
are required to sign the pact and submit it separately along with the Techno-
Commercial and Price bid.”  
7.2.19 Undertaking from the Bidders : An undertaking will be obtained from the 
Bidder/firm/company/vendor that in the past they have never been banned/debarred for 
doing business dealings with Ministry of Defence/Govt. of India/ any other Govt. 
organisation and that there is no enquiry going on by CBI/ED/any other Govt. agency 
against them. 
7.3 SPECIAL TERMS & CONDITIONS: 
Part III of RFP format contains Special Terms & Conditions pertaining to the 
procurement in question. Part of the conditions may be relevant depending on the 
requirement. A conscious decision needs to be taken to incorporate the relevant 
clauses from this part. The wordings of these clauses can also be appropriately 
modified to suit a particular case. Only relevant clauses should be retained in the RFP. 
While opting the payment terms, Buyer shall keep in mind that the Stage-wise/ Part 
payments and Advance payment should not form a part of payment terms in the RFP 
for the procurement of „Commercially -Off-The- Shelf (COTS)‟ store(s).  98 
 7.3.1 Apportionment of Quantity : Cases where apportionment of quantity is desired for 
whatsoever reasons, the ratio of apportionment should be mentioned upfront in the 
RFP:   
“Buyer reserves the right to apportion the quantity among ____ bidders in the ratio of  -
_________ starting from Lowest Bidder (L1) and proceed ing to Next Higher Bidder and 
so on subject to their consent to meet the L1‟s rates as well as terms and conditions, 
as negotiated. The bidders are requested to submit the price bid catering the need of 
apportioned quantity as well as total quantity, else the unit cost of the store(s) for total 
quantity will be considered for the apportioned quantity while evaluating the bid.” 
(Splitting of the quantity should be in favour of L1) . 
 
7.3.2 Performance and Warranty Bond : It is an amount of money paid in advance and held 
in reserve or a written undertaking given by the Seller through his bank as a guarantee 
that he would perform the promised/ contractual obligation as per terms and conditions 
stipulated in the Contract/ SO. The standard text of this clause is as under: 
a) Performance Security Bond  should be for an amount equal to  -----------% of the 
contract value ( inclusive of taxes and duties) in favour of the Director (Lab Name), 
(Place) for safeguarding the Buyer‟s interest in all respects during the currency of the 
contract. In case the execution of the contract is delayed beyond the contracted 
period and the Buyer grants the extension of delivery period, with or without 
liquidated damages, the Seller must get the Bond revalidated, if not already valid. 
The specimen of bond can be provided on request.  
b) To cover the Buyer‟s interest during warranty period, warranty Bond  for an amount 
of 10% percent of the contract value (inclusive of taxes and duties) would be 
obtained from the seller prior to return of performance security bond. Warranty bond 
should remain valid for a period of sixty days beyond the date of completion of all 
warranty obligations. Warranty bond would be returned to the Seller on successful 
completion of warranty obligations, under the contract. The specimen of bond can be 
provided on request. 
i. Indigenous Bidder:  They may be accepted in the form of Bank Draft, Fixed 
Deposit Receipt or a Bank Guarantee. 
ii. Foreign Bidder: They may be accepted in the form of Bank Guarantee or 
Stand-by Letter of Credit from an internationally recognized first class bank .  . 
“The Performance Security /  Warranty Bond will be forfeited by the Buyer, in case 
the conditions regarding adherence to delivery schedule and/or other provisions 