155 
 however, prepare production/working drawings, material specifications and other 
documents and develop an industrially engineered model. The development 
partner would guarantee the material, workmanship and performance of the 
equipment for a specific period. 
b) Where designing, developing and engineering are to be undertaken by the 
development partner as per given specifications under guidance of the DRDO 
Lab/Estt, the expertise available in the industry will be utilized for accomplishment 
of developmental task within stipulated time frame. Such contracts should 
envisage the development of an industrially engineered model/ equipment and 
supply of the same at various stages of progress of trial with drawings and other 
related documents by the development partner as required. The development 
partner would also be required to submit technical document stipulating 
guarantee for the design, material, workmanship and performance of the 
equipment for a specific period. 
12.6 TYPES OF DEVELOPMENTAL CONTRACTS:  
Developmental contracts will normally be of the following types : 
a) Firm-Fixed-Price Contract. 
b) Fixed Price Contract with Price Variation Clause. 
c) Fixed Price Contract providing for Re-determination of Price. 
d) Fixed Price Incentive Contract. 
e) Cost Plus Contract. 
Brief description/scope on each type of contract is given below: 
12.6.1 Firm-Fixed-Price Contract : Firm fixed price contract means a contract in which a lump 
sum amount is agreed upon for development/indigenization and supply of the 
equipment based on data/ specifications supplied and which is not subject to any 
adjustment during the performance of the contract due to any reasons whatsoever. The 
firm or the contractor assumes full financial responsibility in the form of profit or loss. 
This type of contract is best suited when reasonably definite design or performance 
specification is available and when Lab/Estt of DRDO can estimate reasonable price of 
development/ indigenization.  
12.6.2 Fixed Price Contract with Price Variation Clause : This is the same as the firm-fixed-
price contract, except that upward or downward revision of contracted price can be 
allowed on occurrence of certain contingencies beyond the control of the firm/contractor 
such as increase/ decrease in wages or cost of material. An escalation formula must be 156 
 included in such contracts and a ceiling of escalation should also be fixed in the case of 
long term contracts. Price variation clause can be provided only in long term contracts 
where the original delivery period exceeds beyond 18 months.  
12.6.3 Fixed Price Contract Providing for Re-determination of Price :  This type of contract 
is intended to eliminate the impact of contingencies due to causes other than those 
foreseen in the case of fixed price contract with price variation. These contingencies 
may be due to the development partner‟s unfamiliarity with the raw materials or 
manufacturing processes, long term contracts, lack of specifications or the use of 
performance rather than product specifications. In such cases prospective re-
determination of price could be done – 
a) On request by either party 
b) At stated intervals/ at a determinable time. 
12.6.4 Fixed Price Incentive Contract : This type of contract is designed to provide a greater 
incentive to the development partner to reduce the contract costs by providing higher 
profits if costs are reduced and lower profits when costs rise. These costs, the ceilings 
on target cost, target profit, a price ceiling and the formula for arriving at final cost are 
all settled before the execution of the contract. This contract type will only be applicable 
for ab-initio developmental contracts. 
12.6.5 Cost Plus Contract : In this type of contract, the development partner is reimbursed the 
costs incurred and also receives a negotiated profit for performing the contract, i.e., the 
profit of the development partner and not the cost of development is fixed. 
Development partner‟s respons ibility towards cost of the item is minimum except that 
he has to use the same care and prudence as is expected under fixed price contracts. 
This type of contract should be encouraged and concluded with development partner 
only when the uncertainty which is involved in the contract performance is of such a 
magnitude that the cost of performance cannot be estimated with sufficient 
reasonableness to permit a type of fixed price contract. It is also necessary to ascertain 
that the development partner has cost accounting machinery and that the cost is clearly 
defined. A strict R&D surveillance has to be maintained by the Dept. to ensure that 
costs are allocated fairly and correctly by the development partner. The RFP should 
provide for the access to Development Partner ‟s books of accounts for verification of 
the costs by inclusion of a book examination clause in the contract. Where supplies or 
works have to continue over a long duration, efforts should be made to convert future 
contracts on a fixed price basis, after allowing a reasonable period to the development 
partner to stabilize their production methods. 