187 
 Annexure ‘ A’ 
1 BANKING INSTRUMENTS 
1.1 GENERAL: 
Import is regulated by the Directorate General of Foreign Trade (DGFT) under Ministry of 
Commerce and Industry, Government of India. Authorized dealers, while undertaking  
import transactions, should  ensure  that  the imports into India are  in conformity with  the  
Foreign Trade  Policy in force (as  framed by DGFT), Foreign Exchange Management  
(Current Account Transactions) Rules, 2000 framed by Government of India vide 
Notification No G.S.R. 381(E) dated 03 May 2000 as amended and the directions issued 
by Reserve Bank of India under Foreign Exchange Management Act from time to time.  
1.1.1 Banking Instruments in International Trade : The Uniform Customs and Practices for 
Documentary Credit (UCPDC) are a set of internationally recognized definitions & rules for 
interpretation of documentary credits, issued by the International Chamber of Commerce, 
Paris. ICC Publication No. 600 has been in operation since Jan 2007 and covers all 
aspects of international trade payments against documentary proofs. Lab/Estt should 
follow normal banking procedures and adhere to the provisions of UCPDC for payment to 
foreign firms. 
1.1.2 Banking Instruments for Foreign Payments : Banking instruments used for effecting 
payment in case of import are as under: 
a) Letter of Credit (LC) 
b) Direct Bank Transfer (DBT) 
1.2 LETTER OF CREDIT (LC ):  
1.2.1 LC is a written undertaking given by a bank on behalf of the Buyer (applicant) of goods or 
services to pay the Seller (beneficiary) of goods or services, a certain sum of money, 
provided the Seller presents the documents stipulated in the credit within the validity period 
of the credit.  
1.2.2 Reasons for using LC : In international trade, the Buyer and the Seller are located in 
different countries and may not know each other. Countries generally have different legal 
systems, currencies and trade and exchange regulations. So the Buyer/ Seller needs some 188 
 security before releasing payment/ dispatching goods.   
a) A Seller would want :  
(i) An assurance that he will be paid as per contractual terms. 
(ii) Convenience of receiving payments in their own country.  
b) A Buyer would want :  
(i) An assurance that the Seller will dispatch the goods within time. 
(ii) To pay for the contracted goods only after they are dispatched by the Seller.  
1.2.3 Advantages of LC :  
a) For the Seller : 
(i) The bank honours the credit independent of the Buyer. 
(ii) The Buyer cannot withhold the payment under any pretence. 
(iii) Delays that can occur in transmitting bank funds are avoided to a large 
extent. 
b) For the Buyer : 
(i) The goods will be delivered in accordance with the delivery conditions stated 
in the LC. 
(ii) Buyer pays only when the documents comply with the credit terms in all 
respect. 
1.2.4 Parties involved in opening of LC : 
1)  Applicant  - Buyer/  Importer  
2)  Issuing Bank  - Buyer’s bank  
3)  Advising Bank  - Bank in Seller/ Exporter’s Country  
4)  Beneficiary  - Seller/ Exporter  
5)  Negotiating Bank  - Paying Bank, authorized/ nominated by the 
issuing bank, to pay the money to Seller/ 