129 
 (i) Project Director would accord DP extension up to 12 months for all cases 
where CFA is up to the level of MoD and full powers for cases within their 
delegated financial powers .  
(ii) Programme Director/ Director Lab/Estt would accord DP extension up to 24 
months for all cases where CFA is up to the level of MoD and full powers for 
cases within their delegated financial powers . 
(iii) DG (Cluster) concerned would accord DP extension for all cases where CFA 
is up to the level of MoD irrespective of time lines.  
b) DP extension (including ex- post -facto) with waiver of full/ partial LD :  . The 
competent authority for according such approval for procurement cases covered 
under Appendix A and Appendix B of DFP is given below.  Concurrence of Finance 
would be obtained wherever the procurement case was originally sanctioned with 
concurrence of Finance. Where DP extension is for a procurement relating to a 
Project/Programme, extended DP would have to be limited to sanctioned 
Project/Programme completion date.  
(i) Project Director and Prog. Director would accord DP extension for all cases 
within their delegated financial powers irrespective of timelines.  
(ii) PJB/Director Lab/Estt would accord DP extension up to 12 months for all cases 
where CFA is up to the level of MoD and full powers for cases within their 
delegated financial powers irrespective of timelines.  
(iii) PMB/ DG (Cluster) concerned would accord DP extension up to 24 months for 
all cases where CFA is up to the level of MoD and full powers for cases within 
their delegated financial powers irrespective of timelines . 
(iv) Apex Board/ Secretary DD (R&D) to be empowered with full powers to accord DP 
extension irrespective of timelines . 
c) Revision of Supply Order / Expenditure Sanction on account of Statutory 
changes such as taxation structure / rates, minimum wages and FE rate 
variation : Project Director/ Programme Director/ Director (Lab/Estt) would accord 
the approval and issue amendment to the Expenditure Sanction and Supply 
Order/Contract ( irrespective of cost of the contract ) on account of any statutory 
changes such as taxes/ levies or revision in minimum wages as per labor laws or 
additional cash out go on account of FE rate variation. Such approval would 
require the concurrence of associated finance, if applicable. The responsibility of 
working out the revised amount and correctness thereof will rest with Head MMG 