118 
 e) Budgetary Quote ( BQ) obtained from one or more prospective Sellers may also 
form the basis of benchmarking cost. If there is huge variation in BQ, the 
aberrations have to be marginalized. 
f) Prevailing market rates obtained through Market Survey (MS) or prices available 
from open sources like internet etc. may be taken for benchmarking. However, 
these should be referenced in the CNC regarding source & authenticity. 
g) Labour cost has to be broken down into labour hours used and the Man-hour Rate 
(MHR). In case of procurement of major item, the apportionment of estimated hours 
required by the vendor and the MHR of the vendor, where available, is to be used 
for working out the labour cost.  For e.g. for manufacturing an aircraft by HAL, 
many Divisions would be involved over a period of 4-5 years. The total labour hours 
of each HAL Division as per Detailed Project Report (DPR) after factoring reduction 
in hours on account of learning curve is to be worked out. Further the man hours 
have to be apportioned year-wise for each Division and multiplied by MHR of 
respective years to arrive at the total labour cost. 
h) Professional Officers‟ Valuation (POV) may be considered in case no other prices 
are available of that particular item. 
i) Discounts may be factored-in while benchmarking viz. on account of Long Term 
Business Agreements (LTBA)  with other OEMs or economies of scale. In case of 
Bought out Foreign terms or indigenous items with substantial import content, LPP 
plus Exchange Rate Variation (ERV)  since last purchase, if any, have to be 
factored-in benchmarking. 
j) Factors such as obsolescence/ Redundancy, Freight & Insurance, Profit & 
Warranty,  etc. may be factored in while arriving at benchmark price. 
k) Taxes and duties  may not be factored while benchmarking. 
l) In case of DPSUs , the parameters of cost as per Pricing Policy or Govt. of India 
letters, if any, may be factored-in while arriving at benchmark price. 
8.9 ADOPT ION OF DISCOUNTED CASH FLOW (DCF) TECHNIQUE :  
The DCF is a method of evaluation by which cash flow of the future are discounted to 
current levels by the application of a discount rate with a view to reducing all cash 
flows to a common denomination and make comparison. 
8.9.1 The DCF procedure is to reduce both cash in-flows and out-flows into Net Present 