193 
 d) Certificate for onus of banking charges payable for LC amendment  
1.8 DIRECT BANK TRANSFER: 
1.8.1 Direct Bank Transfer (DBT) : DBT mode of payment to a foreign Seller should be insisted 
upon in contracts up to a monetary value of US $ 100,000. DBT payment may also be 
agreed to in case of contracts of higher monetary value, if acceptable to the Seller. 
1.8.2 Advantages of DBT : Direct Bank Transfer shows a high degree of trust between the 
parties as the payment can be made by the Buyer after the receipt and inspection of goods 
at its premises. Payment through DBT is cost-effective as compared with LC. 
1.8.3  Processing of DBT payment : The following steps are involved:  
a) Once the goods are ready and the Seller dispatches them by the agreed mode. 
b) The Seller sends one copy of the Bill of Lading/ Airway Bill along with the Invoice, in 
original (ink signed) to the Buyer directly confirming that one set of the documents 
has been sent to the port consignee for getting the goods/stores released from the 
Port/ Airport authorities.  
c) Following documents will be provided by the Lab/Estt to the bank through paying 
authority for processing the payment:  
(i) Forwarding letter 
(ii) Declaration cum Undertaking (under section 10 (5), chapter III of the FEMA, 
1999)  
(ii) Application for remittance in foreign currency (form A-1/A-2 (Stores/ 
Services)), as per format DRDO.LC.03  and DRDO.LC.04  
(iii) Original Invoice (ink signed) 
(iv) Copy of Contract and amendments thereof  
(v) All other shipping documents as specified in the contract viz. Packing List, 
AWB/ BOL, Insurance Policy, Certificate of Quality, Warranty certificate, etc. 
1.8.4 It may be noted that the payment should be made within stipulated period. In case of delay 
in payment is apprehended, a ‘no -interest liability certificate’ should be obtained from the 
Seller to obviate imposition of interest on the outstanding amount. 194 
 1.9 BANK GUARANTEE (BG): 
1.9.1 Definition :  BG  is  a  written  undertaking  obtained  from  the  Seller through his bank, as 
a guarantee that he would fulfill the promise/ terms and conditions of the contract and to 
ensure the discharge of liability of the Seller in case of his default. Three parties are 
involved in the agreement, namely the Applicant (Seller), the Beneficiary (Buyer) and the 
bank as the guarantor.  
1.9.2 Essential Elements of BG :  The essential elements of BG are as follows:  
a) The prescribed format in which BGs are to be accepted should be enclosed with the 
RFP and the language should be verified verbatim by the Buyer on receipt with the 
original BG format. The essential elements of BG indicated above should be cross-
checked from the contract for correctness.  
b)  While accepting BG’s of foreign banks it should also be checked that the Applicable 
Law indicated in the Agreement is Indian and the date of validity has been specified. 
c) Sellers be told that BGs to be submitted by them should be sent directly by the 
Issuing Bank to the beneficiary by secured means. 
d) The validity period of BG be checked (60 days beyond completion of all contractual 
obligations, including warranty period if any) 
e) In exceptional cases, when BGs are received through the vendors/ Sellers etc., the 
issuing bank should be requested to immediately send an unstamped duplicate copy 
of the Guarantee directly to the beneficiary with its covering letter to facilitate 
validation. 
f) As a measure of abundant caution, all BGs should be independently verified by the 
beneficiary when they are received from the Guarantor Bank. In case of BGs of 
foreign banks, assistance may be sought from SBI to check the authenticity of the 
BGs received. Such authentication would necessarily entail payment of service 
charges to SBI.  
1.10 ACCEPTANCE OF BANK GUARANTEES:   
1.10.1 Acceptance of various types of Guarantees : Acceptance   of   Bank Guarantee for 
indigenous and foreign vendors should be undertaken as follows:  